Data-driven AI (e.g， machine learning) achieves tremendous success over the past decade in achieving human-competitive performance in many cutting-edge domains. Recently， we also have also been witnessing an increasing trend of new AI technique proposals in the cy ber-physical systems across industrial domains， e.g，autonomous driving， robotics， power and energy， especially in solving problems that could not be achieved by classical solutions (e.g， theory and best practice) under open， wild， or extreme conditions. In general， for a complex CPS，AI components can be deployed as one or multiple as its key components for prediction， analysis， optimization and control tasks. In this talk， I would give a high-level introduction to some of our ongoing activities towards addressing the trustworthy challenges of AI-enabled cyber-physical systems， and highlight a few future directions that we have recently started towards building and ensuring the safety and reliability of the AI-enabled cyber-physical systems in the data-driven era.
Invited speaker at ICM (Kyoto 1990)●Grant of the Sloan fondat ion (1991-94)●Grand prix I.B. M. France (1992)●Plenary speaker at the 1st Joint Meeting Brazil-France in Mathematics，one lecture in July 2019●Jos'e Adem Memorial Lecture Series， two lectures in November 2019
李丽华，女，1966年11月生，汉族，中共党员，研究生学历，法学硕士，毕业于西南政法学院刑事诉讼法专业，历任深圳市人民检察院检委办副主任、案件管理处副处长，深圳市福田区人民检察院党组成员、副检察长，深圳市光明区人民检察院党组书记、检察长等职务，现任深圳市南山区人民检察院党组书记、检察长、南山区委政法委副书记。
Dark matter (DM) comprises approximately 27% of :the energy in the observable universe. Unveiling the properties of DM is one of the most important tasks in modern. physics. Benefiting from the rapid developments of the precision frontier， especially through the. techniques of quantum sensing， it has become possible to probe large unexp lored parameterspace of dark matter. Among DM candidates， dark photon dark matter is particularly promising. I will first demonstrate how to utilize a resonant (LC-circuit) and a broad-band (SERF) electromagnetic detector to search for the kinetically mixed dark photon DM. Both proposals are already realized， and promising. results are delivered. In addition， a gravitational wave detector (LIGO) or an optomechanical system can also be used to efficiently search for the U(1)_{B-L} dark photon DM. The results from these two methods deliver the. world records in certain parameter space.
Natural products with complex chemical structures are important sources of drugs， which have long challenged the capability of human beings to create molecules. Total synthesis of natural products constitutes one of the most challenging and influential fundamental research in the field of organic chemistry. Notably， it provides a vital basis for ensuring the supply of natural medicines with structural diversity. This presentation includes two aspects of contents. First， aiming to address the key issue of efficient construction of natural product skeletons， we have achieved the total syntheses of an array of indole alkaloids and diterpenoid alkaloids bearing most intricate structures， by developing target-oriented innovative synthetic methods and strategies. Second， driven by the demands on drugs in the field of life health， we have accomplished the asymmetric industrial total syntheses of three complex natural medicines with breakthrough of the existing bottleneck， by raising and solving the essential scientific problems in natural product synthesis.
Two-dimensional (2D) strongly correlated electrons remains one of central themes in modern physics. In this talk， we address a crucial issue: whether there exists a paradigm to study 2D strongly correlated electrons， starting from its one- dimensional reduction? We will demonstrate that newly proposed Gutzwiller projected wavefunction guided density matrix renormalization group (DMRG) is a promising method on this theme. This method is illustrated by several examples: (1) The benchmark on the famous Kitaev honeycomb model; (2) Unveiling a nematic spin-orbital liquid ground state on the simplest spin-orbital model on the simplest frustrated lattice; (3) Attacking a challenging problem: what is the ground state of the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on a Kagome lattice?
单细胞测序技术对免疫细胞的功能状态识别与干预策略研发产生了根本性的影响，尤其使得我们有能力对肿瘤免疫中的众多核心问题进行全新的解析。我们利用生物信息学方法和单细胞组学技术，深度研究了多种实体瘤中肿瘤浸润免疫细胞的功能状态，并在跨癌种水平上进行了系统性的比较，进而以此为基础，揭示了肿瘤患者免疫治疗响应差异的分子机制。另外，我们分析了非小细胞肺癌和三阴乳腺癌在接受免疫治疗过程中的浸润性免疫细胞动态变化，发现了在有效和无效病人中的基线区别，也发现了治疗过程中变化最显著的免疫细胞亚型。在前期泛癌种T细胞和髓系细胞的基础上，B细胞，NK细胞，和成纤维细胞，鉴定了更多和肿瘤微环境相关的细胞亚型以及它们的具体特征。最终，我们初步发现了肿瘤微环境的整体特征和临床特征的相关性。这对肿瘤免疫的新靶点的发现、以及和临床预后相关的生物标记物的鉴定提供了前瞻性的基础。
近年来，使用光学传感原理的微流控免疫传感技术快速发展。相比传统免疫分析技术，新一代免疫传感技术的灵敏度大幅度提高，动态范围显著增大，所需样本量进一步减小。一些原先被认为难以分析的宝贵生物标本逐渐成为了新型生物分子信息的宝库。基于化学发光、微腔激光等新型光学传感原理，我们开发了-系列光微流生物分子免疫传感技术。我们将其中稳定性最好、灵敏度优异的的自动化化学发光ELISA技术被功应用在了小鼠血清/尿液肿瘤标记物定量分析、外泌体膜蛋白表达谱分析等生命科学研究中。2020年新冠肺炎疫情爆发后，基于这一技术平台，我们也将其应用于快速筛查高lgG丰度康复期血清捐献者和重组抗体/纳米抗体的体外性能评估工作中。在本次报告中，除讨论微流控化学发光免疫分析技术之外，我也将介绍激光发射显微成像技术(LEM)的原理和进展。
When alphas are weak and rare， and arbitrageurs have to learn about alphas from historical data，there is a gap between Sharpe ratio that is feasible for them to achieve and the infeasible Sharpe ratio that could be obtained with perfect knowledge of parameters in the return generating process. This statistical limit to arbitrage widens the bounds within which alphas can survive in equilibrium relative to the arbitrage pricing theory (APT) in which arbitrageurs are endowed with perfect knowledge. We derive the optimal Sharpe ratio achievable by any feasible arbitrage strategy， and ilustrate in a simple model how this Sharpe ratio varies with the strength and sparsity of alpha signals， which characterize the difficulty of arbitrageurs' learning problem.Furthermore， we design an all-weather" arbitrage strategy that achieves this optimal Sharpe ratio regardless of the conditions of alpha signals. Our empirical analysis of equity returns shows that this optimal strategy， along with other feasible strategies based on multiple- testing， LAsSO， and Ridge methods， achieve a moderately low Sharpe ratio out of sample， in spite of a considerably higher infeasible Sharpe ratio， consistent with absence of feasible near-arbitrage opportunities and relevance of statistical limits to arbitrage.
This talk will give an overview of Nature journals and the editorial process involved in publishing. The discussions will especially include what editors do， what they look for， and how they make decisions， together with some practical tips for writing and submitting a paper to a Nature journal.
B细胞、浆细胞介导的体液免疫是帮助人体抵御病原体入侵的关键机制之一。针对包括新冠病毒、流感病毒等不断突变的病原体，如何能够促进人体产生持久、广谱的兔疫反应仍是我们]亟需解决地难题。报告人将以一系列针对新冠病毒的研究为例，介绍如何利用分子生物学技术及大数据分析手段，精准地表征人体中具有不同抗原特异性的免疫反应及免疫记忆特征，并揭示B细胞相关的抗原特异性免疫记忆在不同组织和不同人群中的分布规律。
Heterogeneous catalysis has been a key focus for researchers across many disciplines，including chemistry， physics， materials science and even engineering and to understand the subject is one of the ultimate goals in physical science. In the last twenty years or so， theoretical catalysis has become very important to achieve this goal. In this talk， firstly I will briefly review the history of theoretical catalysis. Then， | will present some of recent theoretical progresses in heterogeneous catalysts. I will show how photo-catalytic progresses can be simulated using DFT. The adsorption/ desorption in catalytic processes will be discussed.
As a carrier and participant， surface and interface provide special environments for supramolecular chemistry and on-surface chemical reactions， enabling real-space and high-resolution imaging as well. Supramolecular chemistry is the study on ordered molecular structures formed by self- assembly based on weak interactions such as hydrogen bonds， van der Waals forces， and metal. organic coordination.On-surface chemistry investigates the construction of macromolecules and polymers prepared onsurfaces with well-defined structures through intermolecular or intramolecular reactions. Single crystal surfaces provide unique platforms for the regulation of chemical reactions， especially the selective control of reactions through the inherent characteristics of two-dimensional and one-dimensional spatial confinement and different adsorption sites. The obtained molecular structures are featured of designability， which is conducive to the construction and realization of special functional molecular structures which are difficult to produce with traditional chemistry.
产甲烷古菌是地球早期的生命形式之一，是研究生命起源与进化的代表性物种;产甲烷古菌是有机质庆氧降解产甲烷过程中的功能微生物是大气甲烷排放的主要贡献者，在全球碳循环过程中发挥重要作用。产甲烷古菌也是地下深部生物圈，如生物成因天然气形成的主要参与者最近几年，基于高通量测序的未培养组技术，预测了丰富多样的产甲烷古菌种群和代谢多样性潜力。报告人结合课题组的工作，介绍非广古菌门古菌，以及降解煤炭和原油产甲烷古菌的研究进展，并探讨它们在地下深部圈，特别是油藏和煤层的生物地球化学功能。
EIT cooling is a fast cooling method. for removing the .motional energy. of a large number of trapped ions. However， for a large number of ions， this method shows less efficiency due to its limited cooling bandwidth. In this talk， I will introduce a parallel-EIT cooling method， which has unlimited cooling bandwidth theoretically. Experimentally we demonstrate a cooling bandwidth over 5 MHz and cooling of all motional modes of a 4-ion string; In the second part， I will talk about the progress for quantum structural phase transition in trapped ion system. we realize the quantum version of the linear-zigzag structural transition for arrays of up to five ground state cooled ions held in a linear Paul trap and we demonstrate several of the control requirements towards entangled-state interferometry near the critical point. Using in-situ spectroscopy we probe the energy level structure and occupation of the soft mode associated with the structural transition， and show a stable critical point and majority ground state occupation crossing the transition.
本报告主要介绍团队在量子点发光材料与器件、自驱动纳米传感器、铜基薄膜光伏电池等方面的研究工作。
Big data is typically characterized with 4V's: Volume， Velocity， Variety and Veracity. When it comes to big graphs， these challenges become even more staggering. A number of questions remain open， from theory to systems and practice. Is it possible to parallelize single-machine algorithms and guarantee the correctness of the parallelized computations? What parallel computation model should we adopt to scale with big graphs? Is there a systematic method for developing effective incremental algorithms in response to frequent updates? Is it possible to uniformly query relational databases and semistructured graphs by using SQL? How can we unify logic rules and machine learning models， to improve the quality of graph-structured data， deduce associations between entities， and interpret event predictions? This talk aims to incite interest in these topics. It raises as many questions as it answers.
Micro-LED显示技术受到广泛关注，但面临居多技术挑战。其中，Micro-LED巨量组装是核心难点。本报告主要介绍Micro-LED发展现状及 发展Micro-LED巨量转移技术和装备的重要性和必要性。从量产角度分析巨量转移的一些关键技术要素，包括转移速度、精度、良率、成本等。报告着重梳理总结当前各种巨量转移技术的基本原理、最新进展、及优缺点，并分析对比其量产潜力。报告最后介绍我们在Micro-LED巨量转移技术(包括胶带辅助激光转移技术和基于光敏聚合物的转移技术)的最新进展，以及相关技术在Micro-LED显示器制造方面的应用潜力和挑战。
Vision is the most important role of information acquisition， output and interaction. Most objects in the real world are high dynamic， and traditional vision methods have technical bottlenecks due to slow respond. We will introduce the state-of-the-art knowledge of the variable focus liquid-filled optics and high-speed gaze tracking active vision， with the applications of the above proposed prototypes， as a result， we could capture and interact with the real objects in millisecond order.
Swept lasers are the key components in laser frequency scanning interferometers which are widely applied in spectral detection systems including optical frequency domain reflectometer， swept source optical coherence tomography， optical sensing， and LiDAR. High sweep rate， wide sweep range， and long coherence length are the most desirable features of swept lasers.This talk will introduce broadband， highly stable and coherent swept lasers including Fourier domain mode locked lasers and time stretched swept lasers. The characterization techniques for swept lasers and their applications in biomedical imaging， high resolution measurement will also be presented.
希波克拉底誓词针对的是行业医生，强调服务、不伤害、尊重隐私等。近现代相关伦理扩展到医学和更广泛的科技领域。现代“技科”系统的运作展现出新的特点，从选题、立项、研发，再到发表、应用，整个链条都涉及伦理问题，事后评估为时已晚。现代社会，技科能人的智力活动影响深远。股市预测、地震预报、软件设计、人体增强、人工智能都内在地包含不同形式的伦理问题。在资本、权力与技科的互相支撑下，行为人的责任界定起来非常麻烦。技科系统的风险覆盖要包括个体、团体、国家、生物多样性、地球盖娅的健康等，既有短期也有长远影响，这对从业者提出更严格的要求，入职业需要进行类似希氏誓词的宣誓。
邱震海，德国图宾根大学博士，香港全球化中心创始人，震海会和震海精英俱乐部创始人，曾任德国之声驻港特派员、凤凰卫视评论员，曾长达十年主持凤凰卫视品牌栏目《震海听风录》和《寰宇大战略》。
细胞外基质中的胶原蛋白为几乎所有的人体组织提供机械支撑和生化环境。胶原蛋白的特征性的分子结构一一三螺旋，在疾病和损伤中可能会被损坏和变性。为了探测胶原蛋白的损伤，我们提出并验证了胶原蛋白杂交的概念:模仿胶原蛋白的肽链可能与天然胶原蛋白的变性链形成杂交的三螺旋，而不是完整的三螺旋胶原蛋白，从而能够评估疾病组织内可能的胶原降解或机械破坏情况。本次汇报将描述胶原杂交的概念和发展，总结了我们对胶原三螺旋折叠规则的化学基础的拓展，讨论越来越多的生物医学证据，表明胶原的变性是涉及病理组织重塑和机械损伤的一系列组织细胞外基质的新特征。最后，我们希望与各位探讨有关胶原变性的化学、力学和生物医学的新问题，以及靶向的诊疗的新机会。
This paper investigates the problem of matrix completion from corrupted data， when additional covariates are available. Despite being seldomly considered in the matrix completion literature， these covariates often provide valuable information for completing the unobserved entries of the high-dimensional target matrix $A$. Given a covariate matrix $X$ with its rows representing the row covariates of $A$， we consider a column-space-decomposition model $A=X \beta+B$ where $Ibeta$ is a coefficient matrix and $B$ is a low-rank matrix orthogonal to $X$ in terms of column space.This model facilitates a clear separation between the interpretable covariate effects and the flexible hidden factor effects. Besides， our work allows the probabilities of observation to depend on the covariate matrix， and hence a missing-at-random mechanism is permitted. We propose anovel penalized estimator for $A$ by utilizing both Frobenius-norm and nuclear-norm regularizations with an efficient and scalable algorithm. Asymptotic convergence rates of the proposed estimators are studied. The empirical performance of the proposed methodology is illustrated via both numerical experiments and a real data application.
报告从中国应对新冠病毒感染疫情这一全球公共危机的策略出发，阐述总体国家安全观体系下的中国生物安全观，介绍生物安全危机的演进与历史沿革，对《生物安全法》、《病原微生 物实验室生物安全管理条例》等生物安全相关法律法规和技术标准的要点内容进行讲解，并结合实验室获得性感染实例分享病原微生物实验室风险评估方法及生物安全管理体系建设与运行经验，呼吁培育“生物安全与负责任行为”的文化，提出构建更强大的公共卫生体系、提升生物安全治理能力的建议。
Eukaryotic mRNA typically contains the 7-methylguanosine cap (the m7G cap)， which not only protects mRNAs from degradation but also plays an essential role in other steps of RNA metabolism and function， such as pre-mRNA processing and translation initiation. m7G capping was once considered to be a constitutive housekeeping process; however， growing evidence indicates that it is dynamically regulated in response to stimuli. In recent years， some RNAs in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes were found to contain non-canonical caps， such as the NAD cap， indicating another layer of control of gene expression by RNA capping. We have developed multiple methods for global-scale profiling of NAD-capped RNAS (NAD- RNAs). In those methods， NAD-RNAS are tagged by an enzymatic reaction and click chemistry. Labelled NAD-RNAS can then be enriched to make a library and identified by a 2nd or 3rd generation sequencing technology. Our recent data from NAD-RNA profiling of various organisms， including Arabidopsis and micro-organisms， will be presented. In plants， we have found that the Arabidopsis NAD-RNA decapping enzyme DX01 is also an essential component of m7G capping.DXO1 binds to and activate RNMT1 which methylates the guanosine cap of pre-mRNA to form the m7G cap. The finding indicates a novel mechanism in m7G capping in plants by coupling with decapping of NAD-RNA. Studies of the emerging NAD-RNA biology could elucidate novel mechanisms controlling important biological processes， such as organisms' responses to environmental stimuli.
Concept drift is known as an unforeseeable change in underlying streaming data distribution over time. The phenomenon of concept drift has been recognized as the root cause of decreased effectiveness in many decision-related applications. A promising solution for coping with persistent environmental change and avoiding system performance degradation is to build a detection and adaptive system. This talk will present a set of methods and algorithms that can effectively and accurately detect， understand， and adapt concept drift. The main contents include (1)competence models to indirectly measure variations in data distribution through changes in competence. By detecting changes in competence，differences in data ditribution can be accurately detected and quantified， then further described in unstructured data streams; (2) algorithms for determining a drift region to identify when and where a concept drift takes place in a data stream， and a local drift degree measurement that can continuously monitor regional density changes; (3) methods for concept drift adaptation. The new algorithms and techniques can be applied to data-driven prediction and rcal-time decision support in complex rcal-world environments.
受体相互作用丝氨酸/苏氨酸蛋白激酶 1 (RIPK1)是NF-κB促存活信号和细胞死亡信号转导的关键调控因子，以响应在人类疾病发生过程中广泛存在的炎症和促死亡刺激。RIPK1的激活促进细胞死亡和炎症。在人类疾病的动物模型中，抑制RIPK1可有效控制疾病进程，显示出了明显疗效。在自身免疫病和神经退行性疾病的人类尸检病理标本中也证实了RIPK1的激活。RIPK1变构调控结构域中有一个独特的疏水性口袋，可以作为抑制其激酶活性的高选择性小分子药物开发靶点，在临床前模型和人类临床试验中已对其安全性进行了验证。这些RIPK1抑制剂越来越多应用于治疗单基因和多基因自身免疫病、炎症、神经退行性疾病、缺血和急性疾病（例如重症新冠肺炎败血症）等多种疾病。在此，我们将探讨RIPK1生物学特性，RIPK1信号通路中与疾病相关的突变，特别是基础研究如何向人类疾病治疗方案进行转化。
张华成博士于2014年从中国科学院化学研究所江雷研究员课题组毕业获得理学博士学位，毕业后在中科院理化所担任助理研究员。2015年7月 以博士后身份加入澳大利亚蒙纳士大学化工系王焕庭教授课题组，获得“澳大利亚研究委员会-早期职业研究员奖”(简称为ARC-DECRA)。 2017年1月起，在蒙纳士大学化工系担任ARC-DECRA研究员，并获得蒙纳士大学博士生导师资格、“ 澳大利亚探索项目”基金、促进女性科研成就基金以及工学院院长奖。2020年加入皇家墨尔本理工大学化工和环境学院，担任副教授，并获得“澳大利亚研究委员会-未来研究员奖”(ARC-Future Fellowship)、澳大利亚探索项目”基金、RMIT校长研究基金奖以及RMIT校长奖等。目前已获得4项澳大利亚国家级基金和3项学校级基金(共计三百万澳元)。张华成博士主要从事仿生智能离子通道材料及其应用研究。目前已发表第一作者/通讯作者SCI期刊论文37篇，包括1篇Nat. Mater.、2篇Sci. Adv.、2篇Nat. Commun.、1篇Nat. Sustain.、1篇Chem. Soc. Rev， 3篇J. Am. Chem. SoC.、3篇Adv. Mater.、3篇Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.、4篇ACS Nano、3篇Adv. Funct. Mater、1 篇Nano Today。发表合作作者SCI论文23篇，以第一发明人身份申请2项专利。文章总引用次数4000+，H-index 35， ESI高被引论文5篇。此外、张博士多次应邀作为Sci. Adv.、Nat. Commun.、Matter、 JAm. Chem. Soc.、Adv. Mater.、Angew. Chem. Int. Ed.、Chem. Sci.、ACS Nano等多个国际学术期刊的独立审稿人。
This talk is focused on the development of bifunctional phosphines that are based amino acid structural motifs. Such phosphine catalysts can be readily prepared， very stable and structurally highly tunable， and their applications to a broad range of enantioselective organic reactions will be presented. The research context leading to the evolution of amino acid-based phosphines and some future research perspectives will also be outlined.
Unlike fellow non-segmented negative- strand RNA viruses， exemplified by the devastating Ebola， rabies， and measles viruses， vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) can be considered beneficial， as it is widely used as a vector for anticancer therapy and vaccine development. The genome of VSV encodes 5 proteins in the following order: N (nucleoprotein)， P (phosphoprotein)， M (matrix protein)， G (glycoprotein) and L (large polymerase). AlI of these proteins are present in the mature， infectious virions. Lack of in situ atomic structures of these viral components has limited mechanistic understanding of assembling the bullet-shaped virion. Here， we have used cryo-electron tomography (cryoET) to visualize the VSV virion， revealing the attachment of the ring-shaped L to N throughout the cavity of the bullet-shaped nucleocapsid. Subtomogram averaging and three-dimensional classification of regions containing N and the M have yielded the in situ structure of the polymerase complex. On average， ~55 polymerase complexes are packaged in each virion. Further， we have determined the in situ structures of M and N at 3.47 A resolution by cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) and sub-particle reconstruction. In the virion， Nand M sites have a stoichiometry of 1:2. N-RNA， N-N， and N-M-M interactions govern the formation of the capsid. The pseudo-crystalline organization of G is further mapped by cryoET. The mechanism of VSV assembly is delineated by the network interactions of these viral components.
针对电动汽车车载充电系统容量不断增大、快速充电及可靠性要求不断提高等新需求，以提高车载充电系统经济性能和可靠性为目标，提出并研究了一类具有大功率及高可靠性特征的电动汽车用多相永磁电驱重构型车载充电(EDROC)系统。本课题针对该类EDROC系统的工作原理、充电过程中绕组通电对永磁电机损耗、电感及电磁转矩等电磁特性的影响、网侧模块并联控制及容错控制等基础问题开展研究工作，在拓扑设计与分析、电磁分析、目标优化控制、样机研制等四个方面取得了突破性进展。
Life is an exergonic chemical reaction. In the search for life's origin， the microbiologist wants to know: What was the chemical reaction from which the first cells arose， and what was the chemical reaction that fuelled the first free living cells? These are questions about chemistry and physiology， but molecular evolution can contribute. The last universal common ancestor (LUCA) is the assemblage of cells from which all life evolved roughly four billion years ago. Genomes and phylogeny have yielded new avenues to understanding early evolution and LUCA that had the universal genetic code shared by all descendant life forms. But how did LUCA harness energy? From the standpoint of CO2 fixation， the acetyl-CoA pathway is clearly the most ancient energy harnessing form. Organisms that use the acetyl CoA pathway from carbon and energy metabolism generate their ion gradient from the reduction of CO2 with H2 and harness energy from the process of CO2 fixation. Using data from sequenced microbial genomes， we reconstructed the physiology of LUCA by asking which genes trace to LUCA by phylogenetic criteria. We found that LUCA lived from gases - H2， CO2， H2S， co， N2 - in a setting that looked very much like a modern submarine hydrothermal vent.The results indicate that the first forms of life were anaerobic chemoautotrophs that evolved from preexisting geochemical processes involving exergonic reactions of H2， metals， and CO2.
Studying and understanding the surface and interfacial electrochemical processes with higher sensitivity，higher spatial and temporal resolution is a grand challenge in the field of in-situ electrochemical characterization. We establish electrochemical microscope based on surface -enhanced Raman spectroscopy to reveal the local electrochemical activity on electrode surfaces and develop high-sensitivity in-situ electrochemical dark-field spectroscopy that uncovers the electrodeposition process on single nanoparticle surface. Utilizing tip-enhanced Raman spectroscopy， we reveal the size effect of catalysts， and establish the correlation between surface structure， electronic and catalytic properties of catalysts at single-particle level.Lastly， I will introduce the development of electrochemical tip enhanced Raman spectroscopy and its application on studying the evolution of the structure and activity of electrocatalysts at nanometer scale.
We consider distributed statistical optimization and inference in the presence of heterogeneity among distributed data blocks. A weighted distributed estimator is proposed to improve the statistical efficiency of the standard "split-and-conquer" estimator for the common parameter shared by all the data blocks. The weighted distributed estimator is at least as efficient as the would-be full sample and the generalized method of moment estimators with the latter two estimators requiring full data access. A bias reduction is formulated for the weighted distributed estimator to accommodate much larger numbers of data blocks than the existing methods without sacrificing the statistical efficiency at the same time. The mean square error bounds， the asymptotic distributions， and the corresponding statistical inference procedures of the weighted distributed and the debiased estimators are derived， which shows an advantageous performance of the debiased weighted estimators when the number of data blocks is large.
在数字再现-虚拟推演现实交互的数字李生架构下，介绍从真实世界到虚拟世界的城市广域建筑基本信息的高效获取方法、考虑建筑-区域双尺度交互的城市抗震韧性过程数字推演方法和虚实交互的建筑室内人员地震安全混合现实演练方法，建立城市建筑地震情景，揭示其地震韧性特征，服务城市防灾规划与安全应急演练，为提升城市建筑抗震韧性提供了数字孪生解决方案。
人为什么 会得肿瘤?为什么不同的人得了同样的肿瘤会有不同的预后?为什么有些人很难得肿瘤?这些问题，使用传统的生物医学手段很难研究，因为肿瘤发生、发展、转移的真实环境很难在实验室模拟。随着生物技术的发展，肿瘤学者现在可以从患者身上切下来的肿瘤组织中获得大量的信息，包括基因组、转录组、代谢组数据，通称为组学大数据。这些组织包括不同发展阶段的肿瘤，甚至癌前期的组织。这给学者们提供了-个研究从正常细胞到晚期肿瘤演化的绝好机会。弄懂肿瘤的演化过程，需要懂一点进化理论。具体地，当体内器官的化学环境发生了改变，将给相关的细胞造成生存压力，这将转化为细胞内的氧化压力，它会导致DNA突变，有些突变会被选择来克服或适应压力。那发生肿瘤的组织受到哪些压力呢?通过一系列的计算化学分析， 我们发现:(i)肿瘤中发生变化的绝大多数代谢过程有一个共同点: 它们都比相应的正常代谢方式产生更多的氢离子(酸性)。我们还发现:所有发生肿瘤的器官中都有慢性炎症及铁积累，这两者的结合将不断产生氢氧根(碱性)。进一步的计算表明:每个肿瘤组织中代谢所产生氢离子的速度与慢性发炎结合铁积累产生氢氧根的速度高度一致。已有的知识告诉我们:细胞内的pH需要高度稳定，否则就会死。因而我们推测:当慢性发炎开始改变细胞的pH时，为存活，细胞改变了一系列的代谢方式，以产生足够的氢离子，以维持细胞的pH稳定，使细胞能活下来。而这些改变了的代谢方式造成了一系列的细胞新行为，包括(1)持续的细胞增殖、 (2)细胞转移、 (3)细胞耐药等。我将简单地介绍如何使用"系统生物学”方法，来研究肿瘤各种行为(临床表现)。这一框架的建立，使得肿瘤研究变得更大众化。我在佐治亚大学的实验室一直有本科生做原创性的研究，如在过去20年，年轻人患肠癌的个数大幅增加的原因及机理。我们的研究是通过大数据分析来解各种各样的”迷”。如果你有兴趣，请加入我们。
人体主要由人体细胞和人体微生物(Human Microbiome)组成，其中人体微生物的种类( ~ 300- 500种/每人)，数量(~1014个/每人)和基因总数(> 100万/每人)超过人体细胞。对于人体微生物对宿主生理和病理活动的调控作用以及分子机制，有待深入研究。陈海威博士(1) 利用功能性筛选体系(PRESTO- Tango) ，揭示了人体微生物可以分泌活性小分子代谢物，通过靶向宿主的G蛋白偶联受体(GPCR) ，来调控宿主多种生理活动(Chen et al.， Cell，2019) ; (2)开发新型的功能性高通量筛选体系(PRESTO-Salsa) ，初步系统性绘制人体/人体微生物代谢物GPCR作用图谱(Chen et al， Cell， under revision;PCT/US2019/065226; https://palmlab shinyapps.io/presto salsa/)。这两项研究成果，为系统性研究人体微生物的功能和分子机制，提供了新的科研思路研究方法。
When alphas are weak and rare， and arbitrageurs have to learn about alphas from historical data，there is a gap between Sharpe ratio that is feasible for them to achieve and the infeasible Sharpe ratio that could be obtained with perfect knowledge of parameters in the return generating process. This statistical limit to arbitrage widens the bounds within which alphas can survive in equilibrium relative to the arbitrage pricing theory (APT) in which arbitrageurs are endowed with perfect knowledge. We derive the optimal Sharpe ratio achievable by any feasible arbitrage strategy， and ilustrate in a simple model how this Sharpe ratio varies with the strength and sparsity of alpha signals， which characterize the difficulty of arbitrageurs' s learning problem. Furthermore， we design an“ ll-weather" arbitrage strategy that achieves this optimal Sharpe ratio regardless of the conditions of alpha signals. Our empirical analysis of equity returns shows that this optimal strategy， along with other feasible strategies based on multiple-testing， LASSO， and Ridge methods， achieve a moderately low Sharpe ratio out of sample， in spite of a considerably higher infeasible Sharpe ratio， consistent with absence of feasible near-arbitrage opportunities and relevance of statistical limits to arbitrage.
神经运动控制是基于脑、脊髓与肌肉的层级式结构，由运动命令神经信号和感觉反馈神经信号构成的闭环动力学系统。研究神经在感觉运动闭环系统中的控制机制是神经科学的重要问题，同时也为脑机接口的应用提供了科学理论基础。即便机械系统与神经运动系统在控制载体的具体形式上有诸多不同，但是基于机械系统运动控制的本质思想，并与动力学、人工智能、控制理论等学科相结合，对于研究神经运动控制的动力学本质具有重要意义。本次学术报告围绕神经感觉运动控制闭环系统，主要对四个方面展开探讨: (1) 基于神经网络以及贝叶斯估计方法的神经感觉反馈状态估计问题; (2) 局部振动诱发本体感觉神经信号与脊髓反射调控肌张力的作用机制; (3) 以猕猴为动物模型，通过侵入式电极阵列与循环神经网络计算模型研究运动与感觉皮层群体神经元对于肢体运动的控制机制，主要面向的神经科学问题为脑与脊髓反射对于运动任务的协同控制机制、神经状态空间内的运动规划与运动解码、以及冗余控制任务的感觉运动皮层协同控制机制; (4) 最后，通过行为学实验证明脑可以通过子运动达成对复杂动力学系统的运动任务控制。
Biostatistics is the interdisciplinary science of mathematics and biomedicine， and is the application of mathematics and statistics in the fields of biology， public health and medicine. In this talk， I will introduce the important role of biostatistics in biology， medicine and public health. I will also review the history of the development of biostatistics. Finally， 1 will discuss some of my methodologic work in three areas of biostatistics: (1) causal inference， (2) diagnostic medicine， and (3) infectious disease epidemiology.
Non-Markovian models of stochastic biochemical kinetics often incorporate explicit time delays to effectively model large numbers of intermediate biochemical processes. Analysis and simulation of these models， as well as the inference of their parameters from data， are fraught with difficulties because the dynamics depends on the system' S history. Here we use an artificial neural network to approximate the time- dependent distributions of non- Markovian models by the solutions of much simpler time-inhomogeneous Markovian models; the approximation does not increase the dimensionality of the model and simultaneously leads to inference of the kinetic parameters. The training of the neural network uses a relatively small set of noisy measurements generated by experimental data or stochastic simulations of the non-Markovian model. We show using a variety of models， where the delays stem from transcriptional processes and feedback control， that the Markovian models learnt by the neural network accurately reflect the stochastic dynamics across parameter space.
In the noisy intermediate-scale quantum era (NISQ)， we are likely to achieve practicat quantum advantage using near-term programmable quantum hardware. To further develop the understanding of NISQ， we made progresses in three aspects: quantum algorithms， quantum simulation， and quantum software. In this talk， I will discuss how to apply quantum-neural hybrid scheme [1， 2] and quantim architecture search [3， 4] to design variational quantum algorithms and apply quantum error mitigation. I will also discuss how to use quantum computer to model and simulate novel non-equilibrium quantum states and dynamics [5， 6]. Finally; I will introduce the .high-performance quantum software.framework for the NISQ era一TensorCircuit [7]: These works together pave the way to better understand and investigate the power of NISQ devices.
拓扑物理的发现是凝聚态体系和经典波系统的重要进展。在这其中，研究光学体系中的拓扑态催生出了拓扑光子学这一前沿研究领域。 相较于传统光学器件，拓扑光学器件具有对缺陷不敏感和传输鲁棒性等独特优势，未来可应用于光学芯片和拓扑激光等领域。在本次讲座中，主讲人将介绍在磁性光子晶体中的系列进展，包括非成对狄拉克点、反手性拓扑边缘态、无序拓扑光学绝缘体、光学拓扑安德森绝缘体以及三维光学陈绝缘体等。
Measuring the spectral properties of an optical frequency comb is among the most fundamental tasks of precision metrology. In contrast to general single- parameter measurement schemes， we demonstrate here single shot multi-parameter estimation of an optical frequency comb at and beyond the standard quantum limit. The mean energy and the central frequency as well as the spectral bandwidth of ultrafast pulses are simultaneously determined with a multi-pixel spectrally resolved (MPSR) apparatus， without changing the photonics architecture. Moreover， using a quantum frequency comb that intrinsically consists of multiple squeezed states in a family of Hermite- Gaussian spectral/temporal modes， the signal-to-noise ratios of the multiple spectral parameters estimation can surpass the standard quantum limit. Combining our multi-pixel detection scheme and the multimode entangled resource could find applications in ultrafast quantum metrology and multimode quantum information processing.
微腔激子极化激元(exciton-polariton)是一种 半光半物质的准粒子，由光学微腔中的光子与腔内发光材料中的激子通过强耦合作用形成。本报告中，我将简述微腔激子极化激元的基本概念及其自旋光子学(spinoptronics) 相关研究概况，并重点介绍近年来我们在此研究领域的一系列工作，包括圆形势阱中极化激元凝聚的自旋涡旋态与斯格明子态、微腔与偏振各向异性激子材料相结合产生的宏观旋光性，以及在此基础上观测到的非平庸拓扑能谷、极化激元能带上的非厄米奇异点与发散量子度规等有趣现象。微腔自旋光子学对于实现光子芯片上以手性为基础的各类拓扑光子学效应，具有重要的意义。
In analogy to matter， the interaction of ultrashort pulses induces vivid multi-pulse dynamics.As a result， the ultrashort pulses can evolve into various self-assembled pulses such as the soliton molecule， soliton crystal， soliton bunch etc. These pulse complexes can also extend the application scenarios of ultrafast lasers. In this talk， we will first report on our current research progress on the molecular dynamics of self-assembled pulses assisted with the time- stretch and time-lens analysis to answer the question of how far the light-matter analogy could reach. On this basis， flexible manipulation on the self-assembled pulses is also realized， particularly highlighting the phase-tailored assembly of the soliton molecules governed by the subtle energy flows. F or the applied stimuli， advanced soliton encoding beyond binary， ultrafast noise-like-pulse laser ranging and real-time spectral interferometry based sensing applications are also presented.
光纤化学传感技术是以光纤为传导媒介，以光场为感知载体，将待测化学物质信号转换为光信号的变化。光场感知的本质实际上就是光场与物质的相互作用，由此，光纤化学传感技术也面临着两大挑战，一是，受限于作用强度，很难实现化学物质痕量检测，二是，依赖于敏感材料，很难实现化学物质特异性识别。这就带来灵敏度低、可靠度差两大共性难题。近几年报告人为突破光纤化学传感技术中感知灵敏度和识别可靠度两大技术瓶颈，围绕光场时空调控机理和光材协同操控机制两个关键科学问题，分别利用时域慢光、空间光导、光材互耦、光材集成，在机理、技术、方法、工艺上进行创新研究，以实现感知灵敏度提高和识别可靠度增强的目标。本次报告将具体介绍这两方面的代表性成果。
Fiber optic broadband acoustic sensors have great potential applications in many civil and military fields， such as oil and gas pipeline leakage monitoring， high-precision photoacoustic spectrum detection， seismic wave monitoring and anti-submarine monitoring. Compared with the traditional electronic acoustic sensor， optical fiber acoustic sensor has the advantages of high sensitivity， resistant to strong electromagnetic interference， light weight， small size， resistant to corrosion and other irreplaceable advantages. The research of broadband acoustic sensor based on fiber-membrane composite devices structure has been conducted to achieve the goal of high sensitivity， high precision， fast response， ultra-wideband and small size of the acoustic sensor. Four different broadband acoustic sensors based on fiber-membrane composite devices have been designed. It can be divided into two categories: the one broadband acoustic sensor is based on the transmission-type special optical fiber device combined with membrane， and the other ultra-wideband acoustic sensor is based on the reflective EFPI structure combined with the membrane.
Interacting many-electron problems pose some of the greatest computational challenges in science， with essential applications across many fields. The solutions to these problems will offer accurate predictions of chemical reactivity. and kinetics， and other properties of quantum systems. F ermionic quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) methods; which use a statistical sampling of the ground state， are among the most powerful approaches to these problems. Controlling the fermionic sign problem with constraints ensures the efficiency of QMC at the expense of potentially significant biases owing to the limited flexibility of classical computation. We proposed an approach that combined constrained QMC with quantum computation to reduce such biases and we implemented our scheme experimentally using up to 16 qubits to unbias constrained QMC calculations performed on. chemical systems with as many as 120 orbitals. These experiments represent the largest chemistry simulations performed with the help of quantum computers (or at least they did at the time)， while achieving accuracy that is competitive with state- of-the-art classical methods without burdensome error mitigation. Compared with the popular variational quantum eigensolver， our hybrid quantum-classical computational model offers an alternative path towards achieving a practical quantum advantage for the electronic structure problem without demanding exceedingly accurate preparation and measurement of the ground-state wavefunction. In this talk we discuss some of the challenges and prospects for building upon our original result.
Emotions and social interactions color our lives and shape our behaviors.Using animal models and engineered manipulations， we aim to .understand how social and emotional behaviors are encoded in the brain， focusing on the neural circuits underlying dominance hierarchy and depression. This lecture will highlight our recent discoveries on how downward social mobility leads to depression; how ketamine tames depression by blocking burst firing in the brain' s anti-reward center;and， how glia-neuron interaction plays a surprising role in this process. I will also present our recent work on the mechanism underlying the sustained antidepressant activity of ketamine and its brain region specificity. With these results， we hope to illuminate on a more unified theory on ketamine' S mode of action and inspire new treatment strategies for depression.
王东，博士，深圳大学特聘教授。获得国家优青、广东省杰青、深圳市优青科学基金。现任深圳大学AIE研究中心执行主任，深圳大学青年科学家联谊会副理事长，中国化学会分子聚集发光专业委员会委员，Wiley旗 下Luminescence期刊主编。入选Biomaterial Science、Science China Chemistry、Chemical Society Reviews期刊新锐科学家，入选全球前百分之二顶尖科学家，荣获深圳市自然科学奖二等奖 (第一完成人)，获得“深圳市优秀教师”称号。长期从事新型聚集诱导发光(AIE) 材料的开发，及其在生物成像和疾病治疗等方面的应用研究。以第一作者/通讯作者在J. Am. Chem. Soc.(5篇)、Angew Chem. Int. Ed. (10篇) 、 Adv. Mater.(9篇)、Matter (2篇)等期刊上发表SCI论文130余篇，包括影响因子大于10的论文80余篇，16篇论文入选“ESI高被引论文”。 论文共被引用8000全次。
To construct π molecules with different structures is one of the key points in the research field of opto-electronic materials. In many cases， the molecular structure not only affects the intramolecular π-conjugation， but also the intermolecular π-π stacking， to result in the different functionalities. In this talk，some typical examples will be presented to partially demonstrate the interesting different properties with minor or even ignorable structural difference.
过去的几十年里，量子科学与技术在不同的体系中得到飞速的发展，包括原子，离子以及超导量子电路。量子光学网络在量子通信，量子计算和量子测量等方向有着很多潜在应用。这其中，因为光与微波巨大的频率差异，微波超导电路的光量子网络面临着很多挑战。本报告将介绍超导量子光学网络的进展，以及-一个崭新的学科方向量子微波光子学。报告将展开介绍基于量子电光系统的一系列工作 ，包括光与微波的量子转换，超导电路的光学相干控制和读取，以及光与微波的量子纠缠。
以PD1/L1为代表的免疫拮抗点治疗在多种恶性肿瘤的治疗获得优异的效果，改变治疗模式。但总体有效率低和治疗耐受是临床需要解决的关键问题。双特异抗体可阻断2个靶点，是近年来生物工程技术的前沿方向。TGFb是肿瘤微环境中重要的免疫副调控因子，构建PD-L1/TGFb双功能性抗体，同时阻断两个免疫抑制信号，重塑免疫微环境，通过协同增效，有望扩大PD1/L1的治疗谱，延缓耐药性。
Quantum Ising models have been extensively used to study properties of strongly correlated systems with many-body interactions and to find solutions to NP-hard problems such as combinatorial optimization problems， A controlla ble quantum simulator that faithfully encodes spin Hamiltonians of interest with coherent manipulation and site-resolving detection can address classically intractable problems. Trapped ion systems have reliably demonstrated quantum simulation of various quantum spin models in one-dimensional (1D) chains. Extension of the dimension of the trapped-ion simulator while maintaining the capabilities of 1D chains has been an enticing next step for decades. Here， we present the first quantum simulations of Ising models with two-dimensional (2D) ion crystals in a Paul trap. We benchmark the simulator by implementing various spin models with complex interaction networks and preparing the corresponding ground states adiabatically. In our 2D ion crystal， retaining the advantages of 1D chains， various spin-spin interactions with different signs and sufficiently large strengths are generated by driving different vibrational modes. Quantum coherence of the simulation is probed by reversing the ramping profile of the transverse field to the initial value and then measuring the extent to which the remaining state coincides with the initial state. Then， we benchmark the scalability of the system for the large-scale quantum simulation. We observe major portions of the spin states are in the ground state even for highly frustrated spin models and characterize the corresponding phase with order parameters such as structure factor in 2D. Our results open the door to quantum simulations that can reach far beyond classical computational capability using 2D crystals of ions.
自上世纪八十年代末高温超导材料问世以来，其卓越的微波性能立即受到微波电子工程学界的关注。以YBCO和DBCO为代表的高温超导薄膜微波表面阻抗比铜等良导体低两到三个数量级，这种优势可以延伸至毫米波段。基于高温超导薄膜材料的超导滤波器具有低插损、高选择性、窄相对带宽和高带外抑制的优点，有望替代LTCC滤波器，为超导量子计算的噪声信号抑制提供更为优异的解决方案。此外，在超导量子计算机中，超导滤波器可免去复杂臃肿的制冷、真空和绝热等支撑系统，充分发挥其性能优势。本报告将首先介绍高温超导滤波器的应用背景，然后对滤波器的设计方法及滤波系统的结构进行介绍。最后，将介绍研究团队在宽阻带高抑制超导滤波器方面的成果及应用，着重介绍一款阻带延伸至51倍截止频率的低通滤波器和一款阻带延伸至17倍中心频率的带通滤波器。
This talk introduces a new type of dynamic amplifier， the floating inverter amplifier (FIA). FIA enables current reuse and dynamic biasing， thus achieving excellent energy efficiency. It provides robust operation against process， voltage， and temperature (PVT) variations. Moreover， its output common-mode voltage is well controlled without the need for an explicit common-mode feedback circuit. A few design examples will be discussed: 1) the world's most energy efficient dynamic comparator， 2) the world's first high-performance closed-loop dynamic amplifier，and 3) a pipelined SAR ADC realizing 100x bandwidth adaption.
Since its introduction， soft robotics have enabled many useful features that the conventional rigidones could not achieve before. Among various types， small-scale soft robotics attract attention as they can adaptively enter and explore many highly valuable while confined， hard-to-reach environments.These environments include those inside the human body， ruins of the man-made structure after an earthquake， and many complex natural terrains.In view of such potential， this seminar will first give a bird's view of my research on addressing four key challenges of miniature soft robots. They are (1) Locomotion， (2) Functions， (3) Fabrication， and (4)Materials/Actuators. As an example of the synergistic nature of these investigations， the central part of the presentation will focus on one of my latest research topics: soft miniature robotic devices for future vascular applications. A total of four projects will show three versions of stent-shape robots ' (stentbots) and a robotic guidewire. These robotic devices will demonstrate their potential to safely transverse through the torturous vasculature system and implement various medical functions. With such capability， these devices can be good candidates to supplement our current minimally invasive medical toolbox that can better diagnose， control， and cure various vascular diseases.
Soliton operation of fiber lasers has been a hot research topic. It is well-known that under suitable conditions the soliton operation of a fiber laser could mimic those of the nonlinear Schrodinger equation (NL .SE) soliton dynamics. In particular， when the laser cavity birefringence is considered， the laser dynamics should be described by the coupled NL SEs， which admit various forms of vector soliton solutions， including the group velocity locked vector solitons， phase-locked vector solitons and dark-bright vector solitons. Based on a simple ring cavity erbium-doped fiber laser， we have experimentally demonstrated different forms of the incoherently coupled vector solitons in fiber lasers， these include the group velocity locked bright-bright， dark-dark， and dark-bright solitons. The features of the observed vector solitons could be well described by the incoherently coupled NL SEs. In this talk we further report on the experimental demonstration of different forms of vector solitons formed as a result of the coherent cross-polarization coupling. We have first experimentally confirmed the existence of black-black and black-white vector solitons. The vector solitons formed under coherent cross polarization coupling have distinctly different features from those of the vector solitons formed under the incoherent cross-polarization coupling. They constitute a completely new group of vector solitons formed in fiber lasers.
The phonon coupling in the solid is a fundamental and universal interaction aimong all the material systems. The phonon wave can be. excited by piezoelectric coupling， Raman scattering， or optomechanical interaction which are usually strongly . confined and can easily interact with varied physical systems. I will introduce approaches to engineering the interactions between phonon and photon in the solid-state system， especially the bilayer WSe2: the surface phonon/ acoustic wave can interact with the interlayer exciton. As the result， phonon waves can transport these charge-neutral particles with a long propagation distance of up to 20 microns. Meanwhile， a strong single exciton-phonon interaction has been demonstrated in the strained quantum dot of bilayer WSe2 that the localized exciton can couple to the breathing mode of lattice phonon， with the coupling strength controlled by the electric field. Also， I will extend the phonon engineering to the materials system beyond 2D: as an example， the. spins in the diamond can form the remote interactions facilitated by the cavity phonon inside the optomechanical crystal. In this talk， I will emphasize the strength of phonon engineering which can effectively control the physical properties of solid-state systems.
Salinity temperature and depth are the most important parameters in physical oceanography applications， because of they are the fundamental parameters of the seawater equation of state. In situ monitoring these parameters is of great importance for process control in manufacturingindustries， pr otection of ecosystems ，prevention of global warming， and especially underwater target monitoring and recognition. An all optical fiber CTD sensor used in seawater based on an OMC is demonstrated. And the OMC is fabricated by fusing and tapering two twisted conventional communication fibers based on the improved flame- brushing method. By monitoring the sensing dips， in situ measurement of salinity， temperature and depth (pressure) in seawater can be realized respectively. The all optical fiber CTD sensor demonstrated here show advantages of easy fabrication， compact structure， high sensitivity， low cost， and compatibility with the optical fiber system， which may find applications in multifunction optical sensors in ocean detections and other applications.
The voltage-gated sodium (Nav) channels are responsible for the initiation and propagation of action potentials. Being associated with a variety of disorders， they are targeted by multiple pharmaceutical drugs and natural toxins. Employing the modern methods of cryo- EM， we determined the near atomic resolution structures of Nav channels from American cockroach (designated NavPaS)， and the human Nav1.4， Nav1.2， Nav1.1， Nav1.8 and Nav1.7 with 11 mutations (designated Nav1.7-M11) in complex with distinct auxiliary subunits， animal toxins and small drugs. These structures reveal the folding principle and structural details of the single-chain eukaryotic Nav channels， elucidate the molecular basis for sodium ion permeation， and establish a framework for rational design of subtype-specific blockers for Nav channels. Comparison of these conformationally distinct structures provides important insights into the electromechanical coupling mechanism of Nav channels and offers the 3D template to map hundredes of disease mutations.
We study the conditions that underlie the asymptotic and exponential convergence of saddle flow dynamics of convex-concave functions to a saddle point. First， we propose a certificate rooted in observability for asymptotic convergence of saddle flows. |t generalizes conventional conditions for convergence， e.g.， strict convexity-concavity， and leads to a novel regularization method that is separable and makes minimal requirements on convexity-concavity for asymptotic convergence. Second， we show that saddle flows' global exponential stability is a direct consequence of strong convexity-concavity， which provides a lower-bound estimate of the convergence rate. This insight explains some existing algorithms'convergence properties for equality constrained convex optimization， e.g.， proximal gradient.It is further exploited to design a novel alternative regularized algorithm that achieves exponential convergence at a rate depending only on the strong convexity of the objective. Our results generalize to saddle flow dynamics with projections on the vector field and have immediate applications in inequality constrained convex optimization， in particular， distributed linear programs and constrained reinforcement learning.
The differentiation of preadipocytes into mature adipocytes is accompanied by the formation of a giant， unilocular lipid droplet (LD). Mechanistically. however， LD biagenesis and adipogenesis are two distinct processes. Congenital generalized lipodystrophy， also known as Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy (BSCL)， is characterized by a near complete loss of adipose tissue， severe insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis. BSCL1 encodes a metabolic enzyme， 1-acylglycerol-3-phosphate Oacyltransferase 2/AGPAT2， and BSCL2 encodes seipin， a protein of unknown molecular function. We demonstrate that both AGPAT2 and seipin are required for the normal biogenesis of LDs， in addition to their essential role in adipogenesis. Mechanistically， both AGPAT2 and seipin function to maintain the normal level/distribution of phosphatidic acid in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the inner nuclear membrane: seipin inhibits the activity of ER-localized glycerol-3-phosphate O-acyltransferases 3/4 (GPAT3/4) whereas AGPAT2 promotes the stability and activity of CDP-diacylglycerol synthases. Our results suggest that the level and distribution of phospholipids， e.g. phosphatidic acid， play important roles in both LD biogenesis and adipogenesis.
Quantum transduction is an essential ingredient in scaling up distributed quantum architecture and is actively pursued based on various physical platforms. In this talk， I will first briefly introduce the concept of quantum transduction. Then I will discuss our recent approach for transduction， which relaxes the im pedance matching condition to half impedance matching condition， and it can be achieved by introducing a two-photon drive in given transducers. We show the transduction channel capacity is enhanced and can be understood in a simple interference picture with the help of Bloch-Messiah decomposition. The parameter regimes with positive quantum capacity are identified and compared with and without the drive， indicating that the parametric drive-induced enhancement is promising in demonstrating quantum state conversion， and is expected to boost the performance of transduction with various physical platforms.
紧密结合国际前沿和国家重大需求，聚焦项目的科学意义，凝练核心科学问题。针对核心科学问题，详细阐述国内外发展动态。根据关键科学问题的国内外发展动态，提出研究目标、梳理研究内容。围绕研究内容，遴选研究方法、设计技术路线。通过研究基础、科研能力技术储备，论证方案的可行性。总结项目的创新和特色，明确成果的原创性.
1.The interaction of proteins with metabolites and other proteins underlies most if not all cellular activities， and many bioactive xenobiotics perturb cellular processes through direct physical interactions with proteins.Mapping these biomolecular interactions can help unravel the complex protein machines and molecular pathways underlying various cellular processes， to systematically unveil wiring of the cells that are dysregulated in diseases and perturbed by chemicals.Nevertheless， there are currently limited time- and cost-effective techniques for profiling intracellular protein-protein and protein-chemical interactions at scale and in situ. My laboratory integrates methods in computational sciences， analytical chemistry and molecular biology with new protein cellular biophysics techniques for large-scale profiling of protein-protein and protein-chemical interactions. Tedious chemical derivatization and genetic engineering are avoided which facilitate rapid deployment of our methods for systematic investigation of various biological phenomena including deciphering the mechanism-of-action of bioactive chemicals andtherapeutic agents. I will describe these methods developed in my laboratory， as well as our recent findings deploying them for proteome-wide screens for off-targets and perturbed protein-protein interactions for hundreds of bioactive compounds and FDA approved drugs.2.Researchers commonly anneal metals， alloys， and semiconductors to repair defects and im prove microstructures via recrystallization. Theoretical studies indicate simulated annealing on biological macromolecules helps predict the final structures with minimum free energy. Experimental validation of this homogenizing effect and further exploration of its applications are fascinating scientific questions that remain elusive. Here， we chose the apo-state 70S ribosome from Escherichia coli as a model， wherein the 30S subunit undergoes a thermally driven inter-subunit rotation and exhibits substantial structural flexibility as well as distinct free energy. We experimentally demonstrate that annealing at a fast cooling rate enhances the 70S ribosome homogeneity and improves local resolution on the 30S subunit. After annealing， the 70S ribosome is in a nonrotated state with respect to corresponding intermediate structures in unannealed or heated ribosomes， and exhibits a minimum energy in the free energy landscape. Our experimental results are consistent with theoretical analysis on the temperature-dependent Boltzmann distribution， and offer a facile yet robust approach to enhance protein stability， which is ideal for high-resolution cryogenic electron microscopy.
We will first introduce a method which spatially profiled epigenomes in single cells and provided high-throughput and high-resolution measurements of spatial distributions of active promoters and putative enhancers in embryonic and adult mouse brains. Our results further revealed putative enhancer hubs regulating the expression of developmentally important genes. We will also describe an imaging-based pooled CRISPR screening approach that combines high-content phenotype imaging with single guide RNA (sgRNA) identification in individual cells. We used this approach to screen RNA-binding proteins for their effects on RNA localization to nuclear compartments and revealed both positive and negative regulators for the nuclear speckle localization of a long noncoding RNA， MALAT1， suggesting a dynamic regulation of IncRNA localization in subcellular compartments.
RNA plays a pivotal role in gene expression， understanding RNA'S functionality is of fundamentalimportance for molecular biology. Revealing RNA structure provides a powerful way to gain mechanical insights of RNA's function in gene regulation. By aligning chemical profiling and high-throughput sequencing， we have developed powerful methods to determine both canonical and noncanonical RNA structures in living plants. Our studies have revealed pervasive functions of RNA structure in regulation alternative splicing， translation and environmental sensing in plants. Functional RNA structural elements may have been widely adopted in plant evolution.
植原体是一类由刺吸式口器昆虫传播的植物韧皮部专性细菌性病害，可以侵染上千种植物，包括大多数粮食作物，蔬菜，林木以及果树。有意思的是，植原体常常会引起植物宿主发育上的剧烈变化，包括让植物的花变成叶子( phylloly)或者让植物产生小叶和丛枝(Witches' broom)等症状，使得植物无法正常生长繁殖，最终沦为植原体滋生和传播的温床，又被称为‘僵尸’植物(‘Zombie'plant)。本报告将围绕植原体效应蛋白的功能研究，阐述效应蛋白如何通过非泛素化依赖的蛋白酶体降解途径调控植物发育，从而促进病原菌在自然界中传播。
In the era of 4th industrial revolution， the importance of internet of things (IoT)， which is the network of physical objects， has been rapidly growing. Among many core components for loT， sensors measure physical parameters and status of objects including pressure， strain， temperature， pH， gas concentration， etc. As more sensors are deployed in numerous objects， especially in remote places， the power supply for the sensor operation is becoming a highly challenging issue. Accordingly， a.number. of low-power or self-powered sensors are being actively developed. In this talk， I will introduce recent development of self-powered physical and chemical sensors at our research group.
Surface plasmon resonance sensors are commonly used an effective tool for real-time monitoring biomolecular interactions. The sensing mechanism is based on the evanescent field perturbation at the metallic sensing substrate induced by the binding of chemical and biological molecules. Molecular binding interactions could be measured from the signal of reflected light， under the condition that the surface plasmon resonance is excited by the incident light. In this talk， I will present the use of hybrid 2D nanomaterials-based metasurface nanostructure as an enhanced sensing substrate. The thickness of the plasmonic sensing substrate is tuned in an atomic scale and optimized to improve the sensing capability. Here， both a sharp phase signal change and phase-related Goos-Hanchen signal shift were achieved due to the strong resonance at the surface of the sensing film. The enhanced plasmonic sensitivities of 2D nanostructures were systematically investigated. It is worth noting that the tunability of atomic layer led to the sensing substrate optimized with a narrow scale < 1 nm. Through a precise engineering of the metasurface substrates， 3 orders of magnitude improvement of the sensitivity were demonstrated compared to the one with pure gold sensing substrate. This hybrid 2D nanomaterial-based metasurfaces would provide a good opportunity for developing portable theranostic devices in clinical applications.
Katherine Wasdin earned her BA in Classics from Brown University and received her PhD in Classical Philology from Yale University. She taught at Rutgers University and George Washington University before coming to the University of Maryland. Her research focuses on women in antiquity， particularly in Greek and Latin poetry， as well as the reception of ancient literature in later periods.
创新创业大讲堂邀请原中石化集团董事长、原中国海洋石油有限公司董事长、碳中和国际研究院创始人、长江商学院CEO联盟主席傅成玉，作题为《碳中和——中国现代化建设新内涵》的报告。
量子多体物理体系在远离平衡态时会涌现出意想不到的集体行为。我们在实验上首次发现当原子间的相互作用被周期性的调制时，原子喷射流从二维的玻色爱因斯坦凝聚体(BEC)中产生，形如烟花。类似于激光产生的原理，"玻色烟花”源于物质波在BEC作为增益介质下的受激辐射。即使局域的原子计数显示的是热分布，整个体系却处在一个二模压缩态:处在相反动量模式的原子具有长程的关联和纠缠。通过在相互作用调制中加入两种相称的频率，我们成功制备出六模压缩态并通过原子喷流与BEC干涉形成的密度波来验证这六个动量模式在幅度和相位上的关联性。另外，我们演示了这种相互作用调制的技术能够被用来测量非均匀和旋转的BEC量子态。另一方面我们通过调节原子间的碰撞共振点一Feshbach共振一首次实现了原子BEC到带有轨道角动量的二维分子BEC的相变。在合成分子的淬火动力学过程中，我们观测到分子的相干振荡并且其振荡频率随着原子BEC密度的增加而变快这是化学反应中玻色增强效应的证据。最后，我将介绍一个全新而强大的体系一多 模腔量子电动力学-其中腔内的多模光场介导的调控性极高的原子间相互作用可以提供研究自旋玻璃等量子物态及解决组合优化问题和研究神经网络中的联想记忆的理想平台。
大量临床研究表明，夜间睡眠静息心率、呼吸、心率变异的精准、连续、长期监测，对心血管及睡眠呼吸类疾病的早发现及预后评估具有重要意义。相较穿戴式设备，非接触心率、呼吸监测因用户主观舒适性高得到普遍关注。本次报告将介绍基于压力传感的非接触式睡眠心率、呼吸监测技术及其在慢病筛查中的应用。
肺动脉高压(Pulmonaryhypertension，PH)是-组以肺动脉压力及肺血管阻力进行性升高为主要特征的综合征，最终导致患者右心衰竭甚至死亡。压电式机械敏感离子通道组件1 ( Piezo Type Mechanosensitive lon Channel Component， Piezo1)是一种与血管重塑有关的重要机械敏感通道，它可以通过各种形式的机械刺激(例如流动剪切、膜拉伸)来激活。王健课题组通过左肺动脉结扎(LPAL)建立肺动脉高压大鼠的2周和5周模型，以模拟高流量和血流动力学应激诱导下的肺动脉高压。与假手术对照组(SHAM)大鼠相比，LPAL大鼠全肺组织中Piezo1的表达上调，且在LPAL -2w和LPAL-5w大鼠的肺动脉平滑肌细胞(PASMCs)中观察到Piezo1的上调与胞质Ca2+浓度([Ca2+]cyt)的增加有关。通过机制探究发现: LPAL大鼠PASMCs中Piezo1的上调与Yes相关蛋白(YAP)/TEA结构域转录因子4 (TEAD4)直接相关;而Piezo1 的肺动脉内皮细胞(PAECs)上调与RELA (p65)的转录调节和肺部炎症有关。该研究揭示了Piezo1在调控PASMCs和ECs中的联合作用，通过不同的细胞信号通路协调，导致LPAL-肺动脉高压大鼠肺血管重塑，为Piezo1在剪切应力相关实验性肺动脉高压中的细胞类型特异性致病作用提供了新的见解。
肺动脉高压由各种病因引起肺血管收缩和重塑、肺血管阻力和压力进行性升高，以致右心衰竭甚至死亡的一种严重危害人类健康的重大慢性疾病。围绕细胞外钙感受器(calcium-sensing receptor， CaSR)，一种G蛋白耦联受体，在肺血管收缩和重塑中机制作用所开展的系列性研究发现，缺氧通过线粒体源性活性氧增强CaSR敏感性，介导缺氧肺血管收缩和肺动脉压力升高(2012) ;移植体血管线粒体可抑制缺氧肺血管收缩、重塑和肺动脉高压(2016a; 2016b; 2022) ; hypoxia-induced mitogenic factor与CaSR胞内段结合持续活化CaSR，诱导肺动脉高压，运用人工穿膜多肽阻断二者的结合可选择性缓解缺氧诱导的肺动脉高压(2017) ;野百合碱激活肺动脉内皮细胞CaSR、引起内皮损伤、触发肺动脉高压(2017) ;野百合碱与静脉血红细胞结合、随血流转运至肺血管，在肺毛细血管前动脉从红细胞上脱落，随即结合、激活内皮细胞膜CaSR (2019) ;吸烟诱导肺动脉内皮细胞携带精胺的细胞外囊泡释放，结合、激活肺动脉平滑肌细胞CaSR，引起肺动脉高压(2019);利用人工多肽阻断急性缺氧诱导的CaSR自聚合可缓解缺氧肺动脉高压(2021) ;食物源性香叶基香叶基焦磷酸通过拮抗他汀抑制的CaSR相关信号通路，抵消他汀对肺动脉高压的治疗作用(2021);CaSR遗传变异增加肺动脉高压患者易感性(2022)。
基于原子分子系综的精密测量在基础物理和实际应用中发挥着很重要的作用。原子磁强计具有较高的灵敏度，对超高精度磁场测量具有重要意义，广泛应用于生物医学、古地磁探索、航空磁探测、宇宙轴子自旋进动实验、探测类磁场效应等领域;核磁共振陀螺仪是用来探测角速度的传感器，由: 于其高精度、 小体积等优势，有望成为战术级、导航级载体的陀螺仪，是未来高精度、微小型陀螺仪的重要研究对象。同位素Th-229是已知唯一在几个电子伏特的能量范围内具有激发态的原子核，这种独特的条件使得现有激光技术激发核跃迁成为可能。基于Th-229核跃迁的核钟对外界电磁场的干扰较小，精度有望超越现在所有的原子钟，将成为探测精细结构常数a随着时间变化最灵敏的传感器。
Phonons are carriers of both information and energy. They are main heat carriers in semiconductors and dielectric materials. In this talk， Prof. Li will answer the following questions: (1) why thermal conductivity in low dimensional materials diverges with system size? (2) What is connection between divergent (anomalous) thermal conductivity and anomalous diffusion? (3) How reliable are experimental techniques in measuring thermal conductivity in nano scale? (4) Can phonons be condensed and how can we use it?
We consider to model matrix time series based on a tensor CP-decomposition. ! Instead of using an iterative algorithm which is the standard practice for estimating CP-decompositions， we propose a new and one-pass estimation procedure based on a generalized eigenanalysis constructed from the serial dependence structure of the underlying process. To overcome the intricacy of solving a rank-reduced generalized eigenequation， we propose a further refined approach which projects it into a lower-dimensional full-ranked eigenequation. This refined method improves significantly the finite-sample performance of the estimation. The asymptotic theory has been established under a general setting without the stationarity. It shows， for example， that all the component coefficient vectors in the CP-decomposition are estimated consistently with certain convergence rates. The proposed model and the estimation method are also illustrated with both simulated and real data; showing effective dimension-reduction in modelling and forecasting matrix time series.
In this study， we examine whether managers learn from share prices when conducting corporate R&D. We exploit the context of China which has been undergoing a transition from“Made in China”to“Innovated in China”， and has seen substantial growth in national wide R&D intensity since 2012. By constructing a sector-year level R&D premium- the valuation difference between high-R&D and low-R&D firms， we find a significantly positive association between the R&D premium and subsequent corporate R&D expenditures within the sector. The premium-driven corporate R&D becomes more pronounced when managers have greater incentives to glean information from share prices， i.e.， for (1) firms with higher managerial equity ownership， (2)firms more dependent on equity financing and (3) non-state-owned firms. Using China 's initiation of the STAR board in 2018， which facilitates listing for innovative firms in selected industries， as an exogenous shock to R&D premiums， we perform difference- in-differences analyses and obtain empirical evidence that favors a causal claim. Finally， we find that the outcomes of corporate R&D， i.e.， more patent applications， patents granted and higher firm growth， do not deteriorate with R&D premiums， supporting rational managerial learning rather than opportunistic catering.
This paper examines how options traders trade daily stock market mispricing measured by short-term past return and put-call option volatility spread. Anomaly return is 7.31 basis points per day when customer option traders trade along with the anomaly signal and is insignificant when they trade against it. This effect is more pronounced for out-of-money options. We show that the delta-hedging activities by option market makers and copycat trades by other institutional investors associated with customer options trades help the correction of mispricing.
Change is the only constant in reality. Detecting changes and making statistical inferences based onlocal stationarity is vital in a stochastic data sequence. As in analyzing network and shape data， the events that change are not always characterized as objects in a Euclidean space. There is a growing importance and urgency to analyze the dynamics in the time series of data objects in a non- Euclidean space. However， existing methods are predominantly developed for Euclidean data by using the characteristics of Euclidean spaces. There is little research on whether existing methods are useful for non-Euclidean sequences. Through simulation studies of manifold-valued sequences and dynamic network sequences， we demonstrate that existing methods do not perform well in detecting dynamical changes of probability measures(regimes) in non- Euclidean sequences. Thus， it is imperative to develop methods to detect dynamical regime changes in non- Euclidean sequences effectively.To this end， we introduce a nonparametric and hierarchical approach that identifies time points at which an abrupt change occurs in the probability measure of non-Euclidean data in metric spaces. Our approach is also practical for Euclidean data.Using the metric， we define a metric based binary partition function that reaches the maximum at a change point. We not only show that our approach can estimate the number of change-points and detect their locations consistently but also provide that the convergence rate of the estimated change points is OP (1/T)， which is optimal. Extensive simulation studies and analysis of a real dataset demonstrate that our method has considerable advantages over state-of-the-art methods， especially when data are non- Euclidean or covariance structures change over time.
随着移动互联网和传感技术的发展，我们每个人每天都在不断产生丰富的数据。这些数据可以定量地记录我们生活的多个方面，消费，饮食，运动和健康，等等，并通过可视化的形式转化成信息，反馈给用户自己。在越来越多以数据为中心的智能产品中，目前的可视化设计多数重视信息的有效表达，而用户在获得和使用数据过程中的体验并没有得到足够的重视。因此， 数据体验设计，作为一个新的设计领域，正在尝试将数据作为设计物料，以用户为中心，基于不同使用情境和数据内容，通过可视化和人机交互设计的创新，增强数据可视化的美学和意义，以及创造新的用户体验。 于滨博士将通过众多设计案例来分析他在数据体验设计中的经验和体会。
报告介绍热带印度洋海洋观测系统(Ind00S) 、热带太平洋观测系统(TPOS)发展中的国际合作、中国参与以及基于观测支持的亚-非-澳季风的多尺度变化研究，包括季风季节内振荡、季风爆发、ENSO对季风影响、季风对台风调制等。
Before each IC digital design tape out， we will need to run various checks to make sure the design have sufficient margins for timings， noises and supplies.The margins are needed since desgin is mostly based on fixed conditions or parameters. In reality， even on the same die， there will be significant on-chip variations or uncertainties of the parameters. In this topic， I will introduce the basic methods to derive and define these sign-off margins.
DNA甲基化是一类稳定遗传的表观修饰，在动植物基因组中广泛存在。不同组织和细胞内的DNA甲基化模式对基因调控、转座沉默及基因印记十分重要。不同位点、组织或细胞内的DNA甲基化模式的调控机制，是表观遗传学的基本问题。拟南芥中染色质重塑因子CLASSY家族四个成员对DNA甲基化模式的建立至关重要。研究表明，这四个CLSY基因在拟南芥中呈现明显的组织表达特异性，它们是调控拟南芥组织特异性DNA甲基化模式的主要因子。CLSYs对植物不同位点和组织间DNA甲基化模式的调控，为利用表观遗传机制改良作物提供了可能性。
在高等植物配子发育的过程中，染色质高级结构发生了深刻的变化。花粉，是植物的雄配子体，含有精子细胞和营养核，负责将精子运送至雌性生殖器官，以完成受精，繁衍后代。精子细胞和营养核是由共同的前体细胞仅仅经过1或2次有丝分裂发育而来，然而，它们的染色质结构却差别巨大。营养核的染色质高度疏松，而精子的染色质高度浓缩，其分子机制并不清楚。我们的研究显示两种组蛋白变异体(组蛋白H1和H2B.8)均通过相分离的机制分别浓缩异染色质和常染色质，并参与花粉染色质高级结构的重塑，这对植物的生殖至关重要。
Autonomous driving has shown great potential to reform modern transportation. Yet its reliability and safety have drawn a lot of attention and concerns. Compared with traditional software systems， autonomous driving systems (ADSs) often use deep neural networks in tandem with logic-based modules. This new paradigm poses unique challenges for software testing. Despite the recent development of new ADS testing techniques， it is not clear to what extent those techniques have addressed the needs of ADS practitioners. To fill this gap， we have published a few works and I will present some of them. The first work is to reduce and prioritize test for multi-module autonomous driving systems (Accepted in FSE'22， CCF A). The second work is to conduct comprehensive study to identify the current practices， needs and gaps in testing autonomous driving systems (Accepted also in FSE'22， CCF A). The third work is to analyze the robustness issues in the deep learning driving models (Accepted in PerCom'20， CORE A*). The fourth work is to generate test cases from traffic rules for autonomous driving models (Accepted in TSE 22， CCF A). I will also cover some ongoing and future work in autonomous driving systems.
Recent experiments have demonstrated that rapid rupture fronts， akin to earthquakes， mediate the transition to frictional motion.Moreover， once these dynamic rupture fronts ("laboratory earthquakes") are created， their singular form， dynamics and arrest are well-described by fracture mechanics. Ruptures， however， need to be created within initially rough frictional interfaces， before they are able to propagate. This is the reason that "static friction coefficients" are not well-defined; frictional ruptures can nucleate for a wide range of applied forces. A critical open question is， therefore， how the nucleation of rupture fronts actually takes place. We experimentally demonstrate that rupture front nucleation is prefaced by slow nucleation fronts. These nucleation fronts， which are self-similar， are not described by our current understanding of fracture mechanics. The nucleation fronts emerge from initially rough frictional interfaces at well-defined stress thresholds， evolve at characteristic velocity and time scales governed by stress levels， and propagate within a frictional interface to form the initial rupture from which fracture mechanics take over. These results are of fundamental importance to questions ranging from earthquake nucleation and prediction to processes governing material failure.
科幻游戏的文案是推动游戏剧情发展、建构科幻世界观的重要元素。讲者将以自己的科幻创作经历为依托，讲述自己接纳并熟悉游戏文案工作的过程，重点介绍如何用科幻书写的视角介入游戏开发的流程。此外，还会谈到一些自己在科幻创作上的经验。
报告将简要介绍恶性肿瘤的定义，展示从细胞的角度看正常细胞到肿瘤细胞转化过程中周围环境的变化，探讨不同肿瘤既有不同临床表现又有巨大共性的原因及肿瘤发生的必要条件，阐述肿瘤的弱点并针对肿瘤预防举措提出建议。
方舟编译器是华为自研的统一编程平台，包含编译器、工具链、运行时等关键部件，支持高级语言在多种芯片平台的编译与运行，并支撑面向万物互联的、可开发和运行在手机、个人电脑平板、汽车、电视和智能穿戴等多种终端设备上的应用和服务。本次报告将详细阐述方舟编译器的设计理念、关键技术、发展现状及其在OpenHarmony / HarmonyOS.上的应用成果。
Dedicated to overcoming the main challenges in the human-machine coexistence scenario， Dr. Su has studied various innovative solutions and achieved promising results in multimodal perception， trustworthy autonomous systems， and intelligent robotic areas. His team proposed safety enhancement and multimodal feedback solutions for human-robot interaction，overcoming the limitations of existing methodologies in trustworthy autonomous systems.' The proposed solutions established an immersive bilateral teleoperating system with multimodal interaction. To increase the autonomy of the robotic systems， he also proposed a general whole-body geometry-based human-robot skill transfer method. It provided a general human-like control solution for redundant robot manipulators. His research aims to study multimodal perception and human-robot interaction strategies for trustworthy autonomous systems in complex environments. This talk will introduce novel theoretical frameworks for guaranteeing the performance of human- machine coexistence using trustworthy autonomous systems.
自上世纪中叶以来，计算机和计算芯片以晶体管为基本元件构建数字处理电路，摩尔定律驱动计算性能增长。而当晶体管尺寸微缩接近物理极限，摩尔定律面临终结，芯片算力增长逐渐放缓，人类正在步入后摩尔时代。此外，以CPU、GPU为代表的传统芯片架构下计算单元与存储单元的分离也造成频繁的数据搬运，形成速度、功耗瓶颈(冯诺依曼瓶颈)， 在近年来兴起的神经网络等数据密集型计算任务上问题进一步凸显。 未来智能计算需求仍面临指数增长，传统计算架构瓶颈更加突出， 亟需从器件创新、架构创新层面为后摩尔时代算力持续增长提供新的驱动力。近年来，通过存算一体、 类脑计算等新型计算范式构建具有高效智能计算芯片与系统已经取得了显著进展。然而在现有计算系统下全部智能、复杂性、适应性都是由软件编程(事实上是编程的生物智能体-人)所赋予的，器件、电路本身均不具备任何复杂性与适应性。与之相比，生物系统展示出了分子、细胞、系统等多层次、全方位的智能、复杂性与适应性，对于发展新一代智能、高效计算技术具有重要启发意义。
深耕能源电力行业三十余载，主持、参与广东省、深圳市多个重大电源项目建设及运营管理工作，拥有丰富企业管理经验，对能源电力行业变革、发展趋势有深刻见解。目前，正带领能源集团上下，团结一致，开拓进取， 立足“双区”，辐射广东，布局全国，走向海外，加速全球化布局；务实创新，攻坚克难，打造能源电力新质新形态战斗力；主动作为，全力以赴，践行成为具有国际影响力的能源与环保综合服务商的战略目标 。
1.离子在智能生命体中至关重要，神经细胞中动作电位的产生、植物细胞光合作用、皮肤的压力感知等都和离子的定向传输密切相关。可以说，智能生命的语言是“离子”，而人工智能的语言是“电子”。因此，如何构筑基于离子传输的能源与传感体系，从而架起智能生命和仿生体系的桥梁，是我们未来面向人工智能的一个重要挑战。该研究方向是受生物蛋白质通道及其离子输运功能的启发，近年来随着纳米科学与技术的发展而兴起的最前沿和最活跃的课题之一。围绕可控离子传输及其功能应用这一目标，我们通过仿生的手段构筑了一系列离子传输材料，通过调控其结构和界面性质，探究了限域纳米空间内可控离子传输的机制，构筑了基于离子传输的能源和传感器件。在此基础上，我们进一步在多尺度范围内实现了基于离子传输的可穿戴器件、仿生神经元、脑机接口电极等神经拟态器件，最终希望实现“人工智能-生物智能”无障碍沟通的目标。2. 目前市场与临床上对可穿戴器件与植入式器件的需求日益剧增，如何使器件具有良好的生物相容性，组织适应性以及稳定耐用性成为了亟待解决的问题。我们在这里研究了一种金属-聚合物导体的新材料，在运动采集、电化学分析、电生理信号监测以及基因质粒递送等方面进行了创新和优化。由于其优秀的柔性与拉伸性，良好的生物相容性以及简单高效的制备方法，该柔性电子在生物医学领域具有非常广阔的应用前景。本报告将介绍近年来我们在柔性电子-生物医学领域的成果和探索。
文化产业已成为提升城市综合竞争力的新引擎，如何评估城市文化产业发展状况，对城市管理者而言非常关键。在深圳市宣传文化事业发展专项基金的持续资助下，创立于2012年 的中国城市创意指数(Chinese City Creativity Index， CCCI)已由深圳大学周志民团队连续11年定期进行研究与发布。基于波特的钻石模型、系统论、Interbrand晶 牌评估法等相关理论方法，周志民团队构建了一个由要素推动力、需求拉动力、发展支撑力和产业影响力等4大模块、11个二级指标和28个三级指标构成的中国城市创意指数模型。该模型在考虑了人才、经费、科技、文化等资源推动的同时，还考虑了文化需求和消费潜力的拉动作用，以及通讯、网络等相关行业的支撑作用，整体评估城市在文化创意方面的影响力。CCCI是国内首个跨城市对比的文化产业竞争力指数，也是我国跨地域文化产业对比研究领域的重要成果。12月4日，中国城市创意指数第1 1次发布。在本次讲座中，主讲人周志民教授将讲述他是如何构建中国城市创意指数(CCCI) 模型以及如何对其进行测量。
Prof. Efim Zelmanov will talk about 3 main clusters of his papers : (1) on Jordan Algebras， (2) on Lie Algebras and Superalgebras， (3) on the Burnside Problem in Group Theory， and on connections between these areas.
创新创业大讲堂邀请原深圳市副市长、香港中文大学（深圳）理事、国家发改委“十三五”“十四五”国家规划委员会委员、第三届国家应对气候变化专家委员会委员唐杰，作题为《知识溢出与空间创新增长——以长江三角洲城市群为例》的报告。
“十三五”以来，通过持续创新、深化应用，我国机器人产业发展迅速。本报告分享乐聚机器人紧抓时代发展契机，聚焦国家重大战略需求，在多场景机器人核心关键技术攻坚、产品研发及场景落地上做出的努力及取得的成果;分享机器人产业升级换代、跨越发展窗口期，乐聚机器人的持续发展规划，从而为新时代未来的建设者、参与者们提供借鉴与思考。
讲座欢迎南科大教学科研序列、教学序列、教学辅助序列及广大热爱教书育人与教学研究的老师参加。田教授将结合在南科大的教学经历、以及曾经在材料系进行教学管理与服务工作的经验，与参加讲座的老师们在一流学科建设、课程体系设置、学生学业管理、教学质量评估、教师责任使命等方面进行交流。与大家共赴传道授业解惑之旅!
先进制造是重要工业基础，是实体经济的核心支撑点，其中关键数学理论与方法相关研究已经列入十四五规划，同时也给出多个项目支持。它涉及的研究领域十分广泛，其中几何数字化设计与分析是核心问题之一，包含计算几何，几何设计与分析，图形图像数据处理，路径规划与运动控制，几何机器学习等，其中一个共性关键流程就是数理模型建立、分析与求解。这里将简要给出CAD-CAM-CNC数字化智能加工流程中一些问题，供进一步探讨。
病原微生物和宿主植物在长期“博弈”的过程中协同进化。植物具有双层先天免疫系统(innate immune system)来识别病原微生物的入侵，而病原物利用毒性蛋白等致病武器促进侵染。革兰氏阴性细菌通过特化的11型分泌系统，向植物细胞内转运效应子蛋白(effector) ，是一类重要的致病武器。之前大量研究表明很多效应子通过干扰植物的免疫通路而促进侵染。而病原细菌丁香假单胞杆菌( Pseudomonas syringae) 利用一类高度保守的效应子AvrFE， HopM1在植物叶片中诱导水分大量积累而促进侵染。我们近期的工作发现，效应子AvrE靶向拟南芥的I型蛋白磷酸酶家族，从而在侵染的叶片中引起植物脱落酸(abscisic acid) 通路的激活和气孔关闭，从而在叶片细胞间隙诱导“液态水环境”。因此，病原物的一类进化保守的致病因子通过靶向植物脱落酸通路和气孔运动，来改变植物组织生理状态和诱发病害。
植物能够整合精细调控的模式触发式免疫(PTI) 和效应子触发式免疫(ETI) 感知和抵御病原菌。在PTI中， 植物通过细胞膜上的模式识别受体识别病原菌的标志性分子模式(MAMP，例如真菌几丁质和细菌鞭毛)或植物自身产生的损伤分子模式(DAMP，例如植物细胞因子)，进而通过类受体胞质激酶(RLCK) 介导下游信号转导和病原菌抗性。本次报告将介绍植物几丁质受体与RLCK介导几丁质信号转导的分子机制以及几丁质信号通路与鞭毛、细胞因子通路之间的协同调控。
熊友军，工学博士，高级工程师，深圳市机器人青年专家委员会委员、深圳市高层次人才，深圳人形服务机器人关键技术工程实验室（筹）主任。从事机器人和人工智能研究超过20年，在优必选任职期间，带领研发团队推出了Alpha、Jimu、Cruzr、Atris、Walker、医疗康养等一系列机器人；其中四款机器人四上春晚。作为核心骨干完成国家科技部创新基金项目1项、国家863计划1项。近5年，主持参与国家发改委人工智能创新发展工程1项、广东省战略新兴产业项目1项、深圳市“创新链+产业链”项目2项、其它项目6项。累计申请专利千余项，已授权发明专利百余项。主持编写了国内第一套人工智能精品课程教材“AI上未来智造者”。
The theory of Mixed-Spin-P fields was introduced by Chang-Li-Li-Liu for the quintic threefold. Chang-Guo-Li has successfully applied it to prove important conjectures on the higher-genus Gromov-Witten invariants. In this talk I will explain a generalization of the construction to more spaces. The key is the stability condition which guarantees the separatedness and properness of certain moduli spaces. It also generalizes the construction of the mathematical Gauged Linear Sigma Model by Fan-Jarvis-Ruan， removing their technical assumption about "good liftings".This is a joint work with Huai-Liang Chang， Shuai Guo， Jun Li and Wei-Ping Li.
Gromov Witten invariants Fg encodes the numbers of genus g curves in Calabi Yau threefolds and play an important role in enumerative geometry. In 1993， Bershadsky， Cecotti， Ooguri， Vafa exhibited a hidden "Feynman structure" governing all Fg’s at once， using path integral methods. The counterpart in mathematics has been missing for many years. After a decades of search， in 2018， a mathematical approach: Mixed Spin P field (MSP) moduli， is finally developed to provide the wanted “Feynman structure”， for quintic CY 3-fold. Instead of enumerating curves in the quintic 3-fold， MSP enumerate curves in a large N dimensional singular space with quintic-3-fold boundary. The “P fields” and “cosections” are used to formulate counting in the singular space via a Landau Ginzburg type construction.In this talk， I shall focus on geometric ideas behind the MSP moduli. Some update will be provided. The results follow from a decade of joint works with Jun Li， Shuai Guo， Young Hoon Kiem， Weiping Li， Melissa C.C. Liu， Jie Zhou， and Yang Zhou.
Expensive problem refers to optimization problems wherein each solution evaluation introduces significant cost， either in the form of computation time or financial investment. Such problems are common in engineering design field due to the use of numerical simulations and physical experiments for design evaluation. Evidently， reducing the number of candidate solution evaluation is of practical interest when developing algorithms to solve such problems.Surrogate modelling and knowledge transfer are among the potential techniques that can be integrated into generic optimization methods for the purpose of controlling the number of solution evaluations. In this talk， I will introduce our recent investigations using these techniques to improve algorithm performance on two classes of problems: multiple-objective problems (MOP) and bilevel optimization problem (BOP). For MOP， the research .observes behaviours of common normalization approaches for an hypervolume-driven surrogate assisted algorithm. From observation， an enhanced normalization process is proposed and improvement on performance is demonstrated across a diverse set of problems. For BOP， the presented study investigates exploiting uncertainty information of surrogate model for infill strategy and its impact on algorithm performance. In addition，relations between neighbour solutions are investigated with the concept of knowledge transfer. Knowledge transfer schemes are proposed to expedite search and their performances are analysed against benchmark problems.
词体兴起而来，雅俗之辨即成为词学批评之一大范畴。由于词与大众娱乐有密切关系，故出现了切合大众口味的俚词，如敦煌曲子词、柳永词、宋代的民间词等，形成了一种独特的美学体系。另一方面，文人则透过对俚词的批评和词集的筛选，力图提高词的审美标准和文学地位。本讲尝试从流行美学及普罗大众的审美角度来解读唐宋俚词，对俚词与雅词作出美学上的区別，并探讨词评家诠释作品的手法，同时分析俚词的艺术风格、形式和內容等方面的特色。
学科交叉研究是当今科学研究与设计创新的发展方向，在自然人机交互、工业设计、信息艺术设计等领域都有着广泛的理论意义和重要的应用价值。随着交叉学科领域研究与创新的飞速发展，设计思维、计算思维、工程思维不断得到深度融合。本次报告将结合清华大学未来实验室在多学科融合与交叉的一些研究进展介绍相关工作。
Prof. Feliks Przytycki will discuss Hausdorff (fractal) dimension of limit Julia sets arising when iterating complex polynomials or rational functions on the Riemann sphere. Methods used， belong to the thermodynamic formalism involving Kolmogorov entropy， Lyapunov exponents and geometric pressure and equilibria. A relation with the boundary behavior of conformal maps on the unit disc will be mentioned.
在以大数据为基础的现代信息社会，硅基光电子已经成为最具潜力的高效率低成本片上解决方案，其应用也从最初的微电子扩展到通信、计算、传感、人工智能、消费、乃至所有的信息系统。信息系统的小型化是信息社会永恒的主题。本报告从信息技术的基本要素出发，详述微电子、光电子的发展历程，论证硅基光电子的必然性，及其对信息系统小型化的关键使能作用。
Climatc-rclated regulations have become increasingly prevalent in countries worldwide.however， due to the global public good nature of climate， it is unclear to what extent these regulations are enforced by individual countries and whether they influence key corporate decisions. We shed light on this issue by examing the impact of climate laws on the international market for corporate control. We find that foreign acquirers are significantly less likely to pursue targets in countries that have enacted climate laws. This effect is : stronger when targets operate in industries more exposed to climate regulations and in countries with stricter legal enforcement， but is weaker for acquirers from countries that are more concerned about climate change or experienced climate disasters. Consistent with a selective enforcement mechanism， the political affinity between the acquirer and target countries attenuates the impact of climate regulations. Furthermore， cross-border deals feature smaller synergies， lower premiums， and less post-merger operating performance improvement after target countries pass climate laws. Deals announced shortly before the enactment of climate laws are more likely to be withdrawn.
Abstract: Industrial Cyber Physical Systems (iCPSs) connect the industrial physical systems (physical world) and the information systems (cyber world) through technologies such as IoT， ICT and big data analysis， to realize real-time perception， dynamic control and information services for large-scale industrial systems. While iCPS brings large scale automation and efficiency to industrial production control， it exposes the industrial control system to the Internet through which cyber attacks can directly affect the normal operations of iCPSs， cause damages to the system infrastructures and even threaten the national security. Therefore， intrusion detection technology needs to be integrated into iCPSs to detect， identify and stop the attacks and minimize the damage to the systems. That is， when attacks are detected， it is necessary to locate the source of the attack， so that further actions can be taken to mitigate the damage of the attacks. This talk will present our investigations into this challenging problem， intrusion detection and localization， through formulating it in a multi-variant time series anomaly detection framework and solving it by using computational intelligence techniques.
Abstract: Edge and cloud resources in virtualized environments are increasingly adopted for enhancing the performance of unmanned cyber-physical systems such as mobile robots and other systems. When multiple robots are deployed in a large geographical area， edge resources in the proximity of robots are used to handle multiple real-time tasks from the robots， thus avoiding large delay from communicating with a cloud center. However， edge resources are energy- and resource-constrained. Therefore， sharing edge resource among multiple real-time robotic tasks with deadline requirements is critical. It is， however， challenging because of the resource and deadline constraints on not only the edge but also the robots. This talk will present our investigations into this challenging problem through formulating it in an optimization framework and solving it by using computational intelligence techniques.
与植物共生的微生物组被认为是植物的第二套基因组，它在植物的生长发育和对环境的适应性等方面发挥着关键的作用。虽然植物微生物组在生产上有巨大的应用潜力，但对植物与微生物组互作机制的研究尚处于起步阶段。我们将围绕高粱根系微生物组展开讨论，探索作物与根系微生物的互作机制以及微生物组在干早下的促生能力。
Plants are colonized by commensal， beneficial， and pathogenic microbes such as bacteria that significantly affect plant health in nature and agricultural fields. Plants require bacterial colonization for their survival in nature， but ironically， some bacteria cause severe disease in plants， pointing to the dilemma that plants face. Therefore， the fundamental question is how plants engage with beneficial bacteria while at the same time restricting pathogenic bacteria. However， despite extensive studies into the molecular and genetic bases of plant immunity， we still lack fundamental knowledge of how plants actually regulate bacterial growth and behavior in plants. We utilized multi-omics and molecular genetics to dissect critical components in both plants and bacteria and underpinned the molecular basis of bacterial regulation by plant immunity. In this seminar， I will discuss some of the recent results and introduce our effort to improve agricultural traits.
王文杰，深圳市投资控股有限公司党委副书记、董事、总经理。毕业于南京大学，高级经济师。曾任职于广州市计划委员会投资处、深圳市投资管理公司投资发展部，先后担任深圳市燃气集团人力资源部部长、副总经理、董事兼总经理等职务，2018年5月起任现职。具有丰富的业务拓展能力、国资国企改革创新经历和企业管理实践经验，个人曾获“2021中国企业改革发展优秀成果特等奖”。
Oceans and seas cover 72% of the earth’ s surface， and they are increasingly being recognized as the next research frontier for sustainable resource management and economic development. The United Nations declared 2021 to 2030 as the“Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development"。The "blue economy”is an emerging concept that envisions the sustainable development of ocean resources while improving societal well-being and equity (World Bank 2017). Central to this is the availability of vast but untapped marine renewable energy for powering the blue economy， including ocean waves， tidal and ocean currents， offshore wind， etc. The power density of wave energy is 10 times as the solar. Intensive research on marine energy has been done since the energy crises in the 1970s and 2000s， however， its widespread adoption is still in infancy because of convergence challenges in engineering， economic， and socio-environmental perspectives. I will mainly present my career path towards ocean energy and the blue economy， including my training and early work on vehicle dynamics and vibration control， industry working on instrumentation， my research on large-scale energy harvesting from civill structures， vehicles， and transportation systems， my recent focus on marine energy involving power takeoff design， hydrodynamics， power electronics， controlco design， wave tank and ocean tests. Iwill also discuss powering the blue economy applications and ongoing work on offshore wind energy. Finally， I will conclude the talk with my vision of driving the research convergence of marine energy through multidisciplinary research collaboration， crosscutting academia-industry-community partnership and multi-dimensional workforce training.
Cellular V2X (C-V2X) communications in 5G enable more advanced services with requirements of ultra-low latency and ultra-high reliability. How to make full use of the limited physical-layer resources is a key determinant to guarantee the quality of service (QoS). Therefore， resource allocation plays an essential role in exchanging information between vehicles， infrastructure， and other devices.In this Talk， we spotlight C-V2X in 5G cellular networks. In order to intelligently and reasonably allocate resources， we propose a self-adaptive fuzzy logic-based strategy. To evaluate the network performance for this adaptive strategy， a system model for C-V2X is built for urban areas， and typical safety and non-safety services are deployed in the network. Our results reveal that the proposed fuzzy logic-based algorithm can substantially improve resource utilization and satisfy the requirements of C-V2X， compared with prior counterparts， which cannot provide guaranteed services due to low resource utilization.
In this talk I will define stable varieties of non-negative K odaira dimension and then describe results on existence of moduli spaces and their compactifications for such varieties in any dimension.
等离子体来自古希腊语，1927年由美国化学家欧文朗缪尔描述为物质的第四种基本状态( 除了固态、气态和液态)。等离子体是最活跃、最丰富的物质状态，整个宇宙可见物质的99.9%以上都是由等离子体组成的。等离子体的独特地方就在于它是由基态和激发态的离子、电子和中性物质组成的气态物质。最近20年，大气压下冷(室温)等离子体(CAP)得到迅速的发展，在杀菌消毒、伤口愈合、美容、口腔、凝血、癌症治疗等展现出优良应用潜力，并形成一门 新的学科:等离子体医学。围绕着等离子体医学，重点介绍CAP肿瘤治疗、灭活冠状病毒以及等离子体医疗器械产业化。
1.At the core of complexity science， networked systems are ubiquitous across a broad range of fields from biology， neuroscience to society. The formation process of complex systems carries key information in extracting the systems' functional properties in relation to their topological structures. Here applying machine learning algorithms， we demonstrate for the first time that thehistorical formation process of various empirical networks can be extracted reliably with high precision， including protein-protein interaction， ecology， economic， and social networks. Specifically， our results show that the temporal link formation sequence of various complex networks can be recovered from the final network structure itself. Intriguingly， we discover that reliable restoration of network formation process can be achieved with only a little more information than random guess on pairwise order of links on large networks， meaning that history restora- tion is highly feasible on empirical networks. Furthermore， we find that recovering the historical formation processes reveals the underlying network evolution mechanisms. In addition to its fundamental scientific value， we further show that the recovered link temporal sequence significantly helps to enhance the performance of widely adopted link prediction algorithms， demonstrating its immense potential in practical applications.2.The genomes of multicellular organisms are extensively folded into 3D chromosome territories within the nucleus. It has been proposed that genome organization and function involve the interplay of proteins， RNAs， and chromatin architectures. So it is very important for developing 3D genome mapping methods to identify the structures and dynamic organization of the genome. Here we describe a strategy for investigating RNA-mediated chromatin DNA-DNA interactions (rDD). Using Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) immortalizes resting B-lymphocytes， we performed rDD assays to identify EBV noncoding RNAS mediated chromatin contactsbetween the virus and host. I will discuss our preliminary results and get feedback and ideas from the audience for further mining the data.
Despite the clinical success of targeted therapies directed towards driver oncogenes in many cancers， resistance to these therapies often emerges quickly， culminating in poor clinical outcomes. Although emerging evidence has revealed the crucial role of lineage plasticity in driving therapy resistance， the exact molecular mechanism and kinetics of acquiring lineage plasticity is not clearly understood. More importantly， therapeutic approaches targeting lineage plasticity-driven resistance are not currently available， underlying the unmet clinical urgency to identify druggable targets which drive lineage plasticity and resistance. Through a multi-disciplinary approach integrating 3D organoid modeling， bulk and single cell RNA-Seq (scRNA-Seq) analysis， we iluminate the once hidden intratumoral heterogeneous subclones， which express multilineage， stem-like， and lineage plastic transcriptional programs， as the driving force of AR therapy resistance. We reveal that the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling is a crucial executor in promoting lineage plasticity-driven AR targeted therapy resistance in prostate cancer. Importantly， ectopic JAK/STAT activation is specifically required for the resistance of stem-like subclones expressing multi-lineage transcriptional programs， but not subclones exclusively expressing the neuroendocrine (NE)-like lineage program. Both genetic and pharmaceutical inactivation of JAK-STAT signaling restored the AR dependency of prostate cancer cells or 3D-cutlured organoids and re- sensitized them to AR targeted therapy， giving hope that JAK-S TAT inhibitors could be a novel avenue to overcome resistance. Together， these data revealed the novel and crucial function of JAK-STAT signaling in promoting a stem-like and lineage plastic state and presented a novel therapeutic approach to reverse AR targeted therapy resistance using JAK1 inhibitor.
在试管婴儿(IVF)诊疗流程中，胚胎学家根据囊胚形态学分级选择最具存活能力的囊胚植入母体内，因此囊胚的评估和选择起着关键作用。囊胚形态学等级由囊胚的扩张程度以及内细胞团(ICM) 和滋养外胚层(TE)的质量所决定。近年来，各种基于深度学习和计算机视觉的方法被应用于囊胚图像质量的评估，这类方法可以降低人工成本并辅助临床决策支持。然而，以往的研究大多利用深度学习分类网络进行定性评估。在本次报告中，我们将介绍两种新型方法进行囊胚图像评估。第一，我们提出了一种结合软注意机制的回归网络来定量评价囊胚质量。该网络输出一一个连续的分数来精确地表示囊胚质量，而不再为分类等级。另外，注意力模块输出的激活图使网络决策更加可信。第二，我们提出了-种多模态表示学习框架，该框架首次利用囊胚的文本描述作为辅助监督信号，以丰富囊胚图像的视觉表征。对于这个特定的小数据集评级应用我们设计了一个双流网络，并引入了Vision Transformer作为图像编码器。此外，我们将囊胚评估问题重新定义为一个图像文本检索任务，以解决数据不均衡的问题。实验结果表明这两种方法为囊胚图像评估提供了有前景的解决方案。
辅助生殖技术(ART) 是人类不孕症治疗的有效方法，也是细胞与分子生物学、遗传学、生物工程、电子机械与信息科学、和药物学等多学科发展的体现。从细胞生物学的角度看，ART是精子和卵子结合、胚胎培养和筛选的单细胞操作技术;从分子生物学角度看，ART需要对精子、卵子、胚胎等细胞内大量分子改变、调控有充分理解;从遗传学角度看，ART涉及到单基因遗传病、线粒体遗传疾病，并要做出筛选;从生物工程角度看，ART需要3D培养环境、生物材料的帮助; ART对电子机械的精密器械有高水准的要求;辅助生殖激素亦对信息科学，特别是人工智能提出要求和期待。ART发展至今，面临诸多挑战。从生物学角度看，其中最大的挑战是卵子和精子老化、胚胎发育停滞、子宫内膜严重受损。生物学、电子机械学、信息科学等多学科的交叉会快速促进ART的发展。本次报告重点介绍是分子生物学、电子机械学科及信息科学特别是AI在ART研发中的机会。
随着微电子器件的尺寸愈来愈接近物理极限，仅靠缩小微电子器件的尺寸来增加计算能力的时代迟早会结束，虽然后摩尔时代的未来众说纷纭，但光电子芯片作为重要的方案之一几乎不可避免，微电子和光电子的融合集成也是大势所趋。本报告从光电子科学和技术的基础出发，介绍光电子集成技术在未来信息技术中的应用、光电芯片在后摩尔时代中的地位和作用，以及实现光电芯片的一些主要挑战及其出路，特别是未来光电芯片所面临的材料问题、光源问题和能耗问题，以及报告人自己课题组近些年在应对这些挑战中的一些相关工作。报告内容包括纳米尺度光电子材料和器件、基于二维材料的激子物理即纳米光源等。报告最后介绍深圳技术大学在相关方面的一些计划和布局。
通用人工智能(AGI)是想达成1个网络完成多个不同的任务，即在不改变网络结构和参数的情况下，实现多任务处理，可以更好的挖掘模型特性、泛化能力，是未来发展趋势。本报告将分别介绍我们团队在单目标跟踪(SOT)、分割(VOS)、多目标跟踪(MOT)与分割(MOTS)四个方向上的最新成果，最后，讲述我们围绕多任务通用视觉模型Unicorn，实现的单目标跟踪(SOT)与分割(VOS)，多目标跟踪(MOT)与分割(MOTS)四个任务的大一统，实现1网通吃。
近年来，网络重要节点挖掘研究越来越受到关注，不仅因为其重大的理论研究意义，更因为其广泛的实际应用价值。所谓网络的重要节点是指相比网络其他节点而言，能够在更大程度.上影响网络的结构与功能的一些特殊节点。如何找到这些节点?它们对网络结构和功能有什么作用?本报告将介绍近年来我们在重要节点挖掘方面的代表性成果并展望了未来的研究方向。
进入21世纪以来，可降解金属成为医用金属材料研究的热点。与传统的不可降解金属(不锈钢、钴基合金、钛合金)植入物材料相比，可降解金属因其独特的可被体液降解特性和生物活性有望作为再生医学的新型候选材料。过去十余年全球材料科学与医学工作者医工结合，在可降解金属的基础研究和应用基础研究领域，对镁基、铁基和锌基可降解金属材料，开展了合金化元素筛选与成分设计，并利用多种动物实验模型来探明材料与机体之间化学、生物学、力学相互作用机制，有效地将该类材料从实验室的基础科学问题研究阶段推动到了企业的创新医疗器械产品研发阶段。报告人将结合自己实验室在可降解金属的最新研究进展，给听者介绍可降解金属的定义、判据和分类，以及其镁基、铁基和锌基可降解金属材料的一些试验结果。
随着太赫兹技术的不断发展，太赫兹应用已经在许多领域受到了越来越多的关注。本报告将分享新加坡材料研究与工程研究所在生物医学和航空材料无损探测方面等应用领域的进展。新加坡材料研究与 工程研究所与新加坡国家眼科中心，新加坡眼科研究所完成了一系列生物医学工程项目的合作。用太赫兹技术进行了角膜含水量，角膜瘢痕成像，角膜刚度测量方法的开发和角膜光学力学参数的提取。新加坡材料研究与工程研究所与Rolls Royce公司，Hexcel UK公司，STAerospace公司完成了一-系列科技局航空航天计划下的关于碳纤维层压板的一系列无损检测项目:低孔隙率材料的太赫兹无损检测;开发了太赫兹计算机断层扫描成像系统;碳纤维层压板中碳纤维/环氧碳纤维层比率，缺陷识别;各相异性复合材料.上多层超薄油漆厚度的无损测量等。本报告旨在分享以上合作项目中取得的进展，进一步和同行切磋交流，共同推动太赫兹技术进一步的广 泛应用和商业化。
微纳结构的有机/无机光电材料尺寸小，比表面积大，还有许多特殊和有趣的物理和化学特性，包括表面化学催化，量子限域效应，表面能带弯曲效应，亚波长光波导效应等。这些材料可以广泛地用来构建各种新型光电和化学传感器件。本报告将总结本课题组过去多年利用三维微纳多孔模板组装集成各种钙钛矿纳米线高效发光器件与光电检测器件。其中包括球形发光二极管(LED)，半球形仿生视网膜及球形仿生电子眼等器件等。另外，本报告还将介绍纳米结构的化学传感器以及高性能的智能电子鼻(E-nose)系统。该系统的核心为半导体氧化物纳米管传感器阵列，另外还有读出电路，无线数据传输单元及人工智能算法和移动数据处理应用程序。通过将独特的纳米管传感器结构与多种电极材料结合使用，实现了高灵敏度的气体检测和判别。因此，与使用薄膜的常规器件相比，大大降低了传感器的功耗，并且与同类进口产品相比有优越的灵敏度。这种传感器系统可以满足智能家居，智能建筑和智能城市中分布式环境监控的迫切需求，未来也可以用于移动与可穿戴设备。
Abscisic acid (ABA) is a critical phytohormone involved in multifaceted processes in plant metabolism and growth under both stressed and nonstressed conditions. Its accumulation in various tissues and cells has long been established as a biomarker for plant stress responses. To better understand ABA distribution and dynamics at subcellular resolution， we have developed a series of soluble and nanobody-based membrane-anchored ABA probes that are targeted to different sub-organelles. Using these organellar sensors， it was revealed that organellar ABA in different cells responded distinctly depending on environmental stimuli， Besides， we identified ABCG16 as a dual transporter in ABA signaling for mediating both cellular ABA efflux and ER entry of ABA- GE. FRET (Forster resonance energy transfer) analysis on the conformational status of ABCG16 dimers further disclosed specific alterations in the conformation of ABCG16 homo- and heterodimers in response to ABA and ABA-GE， respectively. Together， we provide a mechanistic framework for understanding substrate specificities that are linked to different endomembrane during ABCG transporter-mediated ABA homeostasis.
植物与其生活环境紧密接触，井持续接受外界信号和通过多种信号通路传递外界信号及做出合适的响应。信号转导系统存在一种本身不具备酶活性的蛋白质--支架蛋白(scaffold protein) ，它的作用类似分子胶水，将功能相关的蛋白粘合在一起，从而保证了信号传递的特异和高效。本报告将简要概述两类动植物保守的支架蛋自RACK1和14-3-3在植物信号转导的作用机制，以及描述我们最近两年的研究工作中发现的这两类支架蛋白在植物激素油菜素内酶BR信号传导中的交叉会话
We explore how information ambiguity and traders' attitudes toward ambiguity affect expectations and asset prices under three different market institutions. Specif- ically， we test the prediction of Epstein and Schneider (2008) that information ambiguity will lead market prices to overreact to bad news and to underreact to good news. We find that such an asymmetric reaction exists and is strongest in individ- ual prediction markets. It occurs to a lesser extent in single price call markets. It is weakest of all in double auction markets， where buyers' asymmetric reaction to good/bad news is cancelled out by the opposite asymmetric reaction of sellers.
Using a novel dataset based on individual resumes of public firm employees， we propose a monthly index of labor flows and decompose it into an expected level and unexpected shock component. We find that shocks strongly predict short-term market excess returns， while levels of labor hiring have insignificant forecasting power in the short run. The substantial return predictability of hiring shocks remains out of sample and delivers sizable economic value in asset allocation. Our findings cannot be explained by existing labor-related predictors and common economic variables. To exploit the underlying economic mechanism， we show that economic condition concerns are more likely to interpret the return predictability.
 An emerging subject in nonequilibrium physics is "order parameter steering" where experimentally controllable perturbations (e.g， light pulses) may drive the order parameters of symmetry broken phases to evolve in time. I will theoretically demonstrate this phenomenon in two cases: mean field steering and fluctuation steering. In the first case， we show that in excitonic insulators with 5-wave electron-hole pairing， an applied light pulse can induce a p-wave component to the order parameter， and further drive it to rotate in the s+ip plane. In one dimension， each cycle of rotation pumps exactly two electrons across the sample while higher dimensional systems are similar， realizing a Thouless charge pump as a collective manybody effect. In the second case， we study the dynamics of a competing order system which is rapidly heated up by a pump and then cooled down due to electron-lattice heat transfer. In the cooling process， exponentially growing thermal fluctuations lead the system into the phase associated with the faster-relaxing order parameter; which is not necessarily the ground state. This theory offers a natural explanation for the widespread experimental observation that metastable states may be induced by laser pulses.
宋志平是南方科技大学创新创业学院特聘教授、中国上市公司协会会长、中国企业改革与发展研究会会长，作题为《三精管理》的报告。
韩望喜，深圳创新创意设计发展办公室主任，中国人民大学哲学博士，香港中文大学访问学者，外交部候任外交官，深圳市儒家文化研究会会长。自2005年1月起在深圳电台新闻频率FM89.8《希望对话》栏目讲述先秦诸子和阳明心学。2015年9月起在北京大学、武汉大学、东南大学、上海师大等高等院校巡讲中华文化。曾在中国教育电视台一台《师说》栏目中讲授“心灵的和谐”系列节目；在央视十套《读书》栏目“大家读经典”系列节目中讲授“韩非子”；在凤凰卫视世纪大讲堂讲授“走进心学：掌握中华文化的根基”；在央视十套“百家讲坛”讲授《现代文明之城：深圳》。创作完成大型儒家文化交响乐《人文颂》文学本。2013年9月21日“国际和平日”，《人文颂》交响乐在联合国教科文组织总部巴黎主会堂演出，获得巨大成功，成为中华文化走出去的经典之作。著有《善与美的人性》《大型儒家文化交响乐—人文颂》《不动心》《韩望喜正解中华经典》等。2022年获得中宣部“全国基层理论宣讲先进个人”表彰。
根据定义，设计是一门以人类为中心的学科：提供消费品、支持产业、构建个人和集体生活方式。与工业和市场的联系使其成为支持现代社会寻求发展并将技术和创新与许多人的利益联系起来的学科。在人类中心主义的观点中，人类福祉被认为是技术创新和经济科学的目标。这带来了一个内在的矛盾：设计可能一直在支持巩固全球化发展理念中的消费主义社会，并且在很大程度上促成了我们面临的环境挑战。超越人类中心主义的界限讨论设计意味着同意：设计社会“已经荒谬地相信消费是解决我们作为一个物种的福祉的显而易见和合乎逻辑的方式”，并且“人类这一物种的福祉”包含的创造力和创新力是非常有限的。因此，我们如何看待超越人类的设计方法论？我们如何通过“过渡设计”来创造对所有生命形式的同理心？本次演讲将与各位分享关于如何消除文化与自然之间的区别的想法，进而支持一种新的设计实践，以重新发现生态纠缠，而非解决问题或设置问题。
珠绣的历史早在东汉以至隋唐、宋代均可见实物及文字记载。在广州东汉墓葬及广州晋、南朝墓葬中均出土过玻璃串珠等实物，其历史距今已有二千多年。粤绣(珠绣)源于中国工艺美术之都潮州，是粤绣的重要组成部分，是独具岭南特色的代表性传统工艺，还是一种十分精巧的手工刺绣艺术。珠绣创作者通常使用针线穿引珍珠。玻璃珠、宝石珠、珠片:晶石、胶石等多种材料，在画布或纺织品，花布、人造革、真皮等不同材料上绣出生动立体、色彩绚丽的图案。珠绣作品题材广泛，晶种繁多，既有壮丽豪华的巨型艺术作品和玲珑精巧的艺术品小件，又有兼具装饰性和实用性的珠绣毛衫。珠绣时装、珠绣玩具、珠绣腰带等日常生活用品。通过装饰性实用品及其在婚纱礼服。民间服饰。湖剧服饰中的广泛应用，珠绣得以广泛传播，现已扩展成为岭南文化的重要载体。本次讲座将从球绣的历史演变、材料:技艺、针法、门类等各方面讲述珠绣，赏析珠块面作品，领略珠绣所独有的动感与流光溢彩之美。
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) is a very powerful experimental method that plays an important role in many fields such as physics， chemistry， materials， biology， medicine and earth sciences. To date， this technique has fostered five Nobel Prizes， In condensed matter physics， the physical properties of electron spin， orbit， charge， and lattice degrees of freedom in the surrounding chemical environment can be reflected according to the static and dynamic behavior of atomic ，nucleus degree of freedom， so it is a local and microscopic means of measurement. In this talk， I will briefly describe the principle of NMR technology and its applications in the fields of unconventional superconductivity， heavy fermion materials， quantum spin liquids， etc. Some examples will be given in terms of our recent progresses in strongly correlated materials like Sr2RuO4， CeNiAsO and YCu3(OH)6.5Br2.5.
With the trend of processing a large volume of sensitive data on PaaS services (e.g. DNN training)， a TEE architecture that supports general heterogeneous accelerators， enables spatial sharing on one accelerator， and enforces strong isolation across accelerators is highly desirable. However， none of the existing TEE solutions meet all three requirements. In this paper， we propose CRONUS， the first TEE architecture that achieves the three crucial requirements. The key idea of CRONUS is to partition heterogeneous computation into isolated TEE enclaves， where each enclave encapsulates only one kind of computation (e.g. GPU computation)， and multiple enclaves can spatially share an accelerator. Then， CRONUS constructs heterogeneous computing using remote procedure calls (RPCs) among enclaves. With CRONUS， each accelerator' s hardware and its software stack are strongly isolated from others' ，and each enclave trusts only its own hardware. To tackle the security challenge caused by inter-enclave interactions， we design a new streaming remote procedure call abstraction to enable secure RPCs with high performance. CRONUS is softwarebased， making it general to diverse accelerators. We implemented CRONUS on ARM TrustZone. Evaluation on diverse workloads with CPUs， GPUs and NPUs shows that， CRONUS achieves less than 7.1% extra computation time compared to native (unprotected) executions.
We argue that， despite the spectacular achievements of machine learning techniques， we are still far from Artificial General Intelligence (AGl). A big step toward this goal would be to develop autonomous systems capable of replacing human agents working in complex organizations， as envisioned by the loT. This requires in particular， the convergence between Computing and Al integrating data-based machine learning and model-based systems engineering. We discuss the relevance of existing criteria for comparing human and machine intelligence and show some notable analogies and differences between scientific knowledge and that produced by neural networks.Emphasizing that autonomy is an important step towards AGI， we present a characterization of autonomous systems， and show key differences with mental systems equipped with common sense knowledge and reasoning.We conclude by advocating challenging work directions， including the development of a new foundation for systems engineering and scientific knowledge， and the joint exploration of physical and mental phenomena that embody human intelligence.
本次报告将主要介绍雷晓光课题组如何利用化学遗传学手段深入探索与人类重大疾病紧密联系的程序性细胞死亡的分子机制，进而利用化学生物学、药物化学、结构生物学等研究手段，发现新的药物靶标与开发创新型小分子候选药物。
To delineate molecular machines with atomic detail inside cells Represents the future of tructural biology. With cryo-electron tomography（crVO-ET）and advanced sub-tomogram analysis，determined the ribosome average at 3.0A resolution inside Mycoplasma pneumoniae cells. Extensive sub-tomogram classification of ribosomes in native cells determined more than 13 intermediate structures (4-10 A resolutions） along active translation， which not only visualizes the structural dynamics but also provides unique insights into their functional landscapes inside cells. Mapping back the classified ribosomes into the tomogram reveals the spatial and functionalorganization of translating ribosomes in the cell which unraveled a local coordination mechanism within polysomes that is mediated by the ribosomal protein L9. Moreover a variety of supramolecular assemblies formed by ribosomes and other molecular machines were captured， which include transcription-translation coupling complexes， ribosome-translocon complexes， and other supercomplexes that may only form within the cellular context. Furthermore， I resolved more than 17 ribosome intermediate structures in three different antibiotic-treated datasets，and demonstrated how the drug molecules drastically reshape structural and functional landscapes of the translation machinery inside bacterial cells. The works pushed limits of cryo-ET and sub-tomogram analysis， and herald a new era of integrative in-cell structural biology.
Existing popular Blockchain consensus mechanisms ，such as Proof-of-Work (PoW）， are designed to record existing transactions. However， they play no role in the transaction generation process. Many blockchain applications require high computation costs to generate and record transactions (e.g， in the case of PoW）. In this paper， we propose an approach that allows us to utilize the consensus generation process to generate transactions by solving complex problems. We call it the Proof-of-Merit (PoM） mechanism-this approach decentralizes the transaction-generation process and selects proposed solutions to the problem based on their merit. We illustrate the PoM mechanism in thee context of ridesharing， where a group of solvers provide solutions to the problem of matching riders with drivers. Moreover， we define two objectives-efficiency and equity-to evaluate：PoM. We demonstrate PoMs performance and nuanced properties using agent-based simulation. We show how Decentralized Control Parameter(DCP） influences the intrinsic tradeoffs between efficiency and equity. Further ， we explore how to find the proper value of DCP towards achieving a desirable balance of the two objectives.
What drives the star evolution and  element synthesis？ The talk will firstly introduce the advance of nuclear astrophysics. Followed by the presentation of JUNA underground facility. JUNA was established in 2020， with ultra-low background and high intensity and the development of direct reaction method， JUNA team can learn the critical reaction rates inside the Gamow window. JUNA achieved the world record of beam intensity. Beam exposure and target lifetime.The top JUNA performance help the research team to deliver precision nuclear astrophysics rection rates that rule out the nuclear physics uncertainties including space gamma emission， neutron source in star and overabundance of Ca in coldest stars observed by JWST. The research result was published PRL and Nature and was invited to keynote talk inrecent APPC 15 conferences.The research highlights of JUNA will be presented.
This study examines how minimum wage hikes affect firms industrial pollution. Using the establishment-level pollutant emission data on Chinese industrial firms and exploring the minimum wage policy discontinuities at county borders ， we find that minimum wage hikes induce firms to pollute more and reduce their abatement efforts. In particular， a 10% increase inminimum wage corresponds to a 4.63% increase in COD emissions .State ownership mitigates the negative impact of minimum wages on pollutant emissions， suggesting its role in addressing externality. The effects of minimum wages on pollutant emissions are stronger for financially constrained firms and firms with lower product market power，and higher labor intensity. These effects are attenuated with the staggered increase of pollution fee charges across provinces. Overall，our findings highlight the unintended environmental consequences of labor market policies.
Correlation functions and entanglement are two different aspects to characterize quantum many-body states. While many correlation functions are experimentally accessible， entanglement entropy(EE)， the simplest characterization of quantum entanglement， is usually difficult to measure. In this talk， I will introduce a protocol to bound EE by local measurements.This protocol untilizes local correlation matrices and focuses on their (approximate) zero eigenvalues. Given a quantum state， each (approximate) zero eigenvalue can be used to define a set of local projection operators.An auxiliary Hamiltonian can then be constructed by summing these projuctors. When the construction only involves projectors of zero eigenvlaues， we prive the EE of a subsystem is bounded by the ground-state degeneracy of the anxiliary Hamiltonian on this subsysterm.When projectors from nonzero eigenvalues are included， we show the EE can be bounded by a thermal entropy of the subsystem.Our protocol can be applied experimentally to investgate exotic quantum many-body states prepared in quantum simulators.
产品站设计是小米生态链爆品打造过程中必不可少的重要一环，是小米在众多智能硬件科技品牌/公司脱颖而出的制胜法宝，它运用消费者用户最通俗易懂且注重参与感的文案表达、配以极简精致、品质舒适的页面图素设计，结合创意营销深度推广小米/米家智能产品来获得用户的极致口碑传播。我将为大家介绍和分享关于如何在复杂多变的商业营销环境下，通过提升产品视觉传达设计，实现美学风格鲜明独特的产品表达，让产品设计持续在「体验与美」价值升华的同时，帮助用户解决更多现实痛点问题，向往更美好的生活。
Traditional Peking opera performers did not use musical notation in their performances and training. Many were illiterate， and very few could read gongche notation (a traditional Chinese musical notation). While training， they emulated melodies performed orally by their masters， memorized tunes， and improvised onstage. However， after the founding of the People’s Republic of China， cipher notation was introduced as an ‘advanced’ tool for teaching and preserving Peking opera at theatre schools. In contrast， gongche notation came to be regarded as ‘outdated.’ Later， the rise of professional composers and the compiling of Peking opera teaching materials accelerated the popularization of cipher notation. Nowadays， the younger generation of Peking opera practitioners heavily depends on musical notation， directly resulting in the rapid decline of improvised performances onstage.Nevertheless， the wide use of cipher notation has significantly contributed to the teaching and preservation of Peking opera music. By taking qinshi (the lead accompanist who plays the Peking opera fiddle jinghu) and their accompaniments as examples， this talk examines the historical background of using cipher notation at theatre schools， different beat conceptions (the one in the cipher notation and that in the Peking opera rhythmic system)， and qinshi’s opinions towards using musical notations. I argue that influenced by Westernized ideas promoted during the New Culture Movement， cipher notation was regarded as superior to gongche notation. Yet， nowadays， qinshi do not consider cipher notation a perfect notation. The debates on whether to use musical notation reflect contemporary qinshi’s reflective thinking on balancing jinghu accompaniment traditions and challenges they’ve encountered in their jinghu accompaniments.
智能纺织品的可编程特性使其成为新兴新技术领域不可或缺的一部分。结合微电子学和能源、人工智能、纺织微电子异质集成等技术，智能近身可穿戴系统得到了广泛关注和深入探索。智能纺织集成微电子智能可穿戴系统在医疗保健、体育、教育、保护和虚拟世界中得到越来越多的应用。本报告介绍了我们团队在近身智能可穿戴系统的三类关键平台技术的最新研究工作进展。包括 (1) 自主研发的微电子纺织系统异质集成技术，设计、制造、测试嵌入式微电子芯片的电子纱线和织物器件和系统。（2）高输出纤维基直流发电机的机理研究、材料设计与合成、装置设计、制备、测试和应用。（3）智能可穿戴系统的设计、制备、建模和测试评估以及增强帕金森病患者活动能力的应用实例。
任建明，山西乡宁人，清华大学工学学士、工学硕士、管理学博士。北京航空航天大学公共管理学院教授、博士生导师，北航廉洁研究与教育中心主任。美国哥伦比亚大学访问学者。主要从事廉政建设、政府管理、公共组织领导等方面的研究。曾受聘中央纪委国家监察部特邀监察员（2013-2018），兼任中国管理现代化研究会廉政分会理事长，北京市纪检监察学会副会长。主持国家社会科学基金重大项目、北京市社会科学基金重大项目及政府机构委托项目多项，代表性著作有《腐败与反腐败：理论、模型和方法》，《中国新时期反腐败历程》，在国内外学术刊物上发表论文200余篇，被《新华文摘》、人大复印报刊资料全文转载的文章分别有6篇和17篇。
化学生物学（Chemical biology）作为一门新兴的交叉学科，通过运用化学小分子作为工具研究生物学问题，在人类疾病研究和药物开发过程中发挥了巨大作用。化学遗传学（Chemical genetics）作为经典遗传学的补充，借助小分子化合物实现对蛋白家族的广谱或特异调控，具有时间和空间上的灵活性，克服经典遗传学面临的基因冗余和突变致死等瓶颈。近年，化学遗传学在植物科学特别是植物激素信号转导机制研究中得到广泛应用。本次报告将简要概述化学生物学在生长素研究中的应用，并以我们近期开发的生长素酰胺合成酶GRETCHEN HAGEN3（GH3）的小分子抑制剂为例介绍化学调控剂开发的研究方法和策略。
真核生物中高度保守的丝裂原活化蛋白激酶（Mitogen-Activated protein kinases，MAPK）信号通路调控植物多个重要的生长发育、抗逆、抗病过程。我们课题组围绕MAPK级联信号通路核心成员的功能挖掘及其上下游信号成分的鉴定开展相关研究。本报告将系统介绍MAPK相关研究系统的建立过程及心得，以及利用新的研究系统带来的对植物MAPK级联信号功能的全新的认识和理解，尤其是MAPK级联信号在植物生长发育调控中的新功能及机制。
机器视觉是人工智能正在快速发展的一个分支，即用机器代替人眼和大脑来做测量和判断。在工业生产制造中应用广泛，主要划分为识别，定位，测量，检测四个技术领域，在制造工序中的来料检验，生产过程的自动化导航，产品质量检验的阶段均发挥了非常重要的作用。当今电子产品的制造过程具有工艺复杂，精度要求高，批量巨大，更新换代快的特点，对制造生产过程提出了巨大挑战。随着5G通讯，AI传感等新科技引入电子产品制造业面临转型升级需求，机器视觉技术的引入显得无为必要。本报告将从电子产品的生产实践出发，闻述工业生产机器视觉需求场景，以工业生产中的机器视觉需求为出发点，介绍电子产品结构和组装流程，探讨产品生成中的自动化视觉和来料、组装整机阶段的视觉并介绍目前前沿的机器视觉设备。
以往的水合物热激法解析模型往往只关注水合物分解过程中的传热和渗流特征，却忽视了其中的地质力学效应。然而，在热激法下的水合物分解同样是一个多物理场耦合的过程，地质力学效应不应被忽略。因此我们基于已有的解析模型建立了一个考虑地质力学效应的水合物热激法热流固耦合模型，并且采用增量法实现了对耦合系统的求解。我们验证了模型的可靠性并且对比了Lagrange’s孔隙度和真实孔隙度对耦合系统的影响。结果显示，在小应变假设下，不同孔隙度策略造成的误差对于耦合系统的影响比较小，可以接受。随后，我们基于该模型和求解方法展开了参数分析，计算了应力荷载、边界温度和边界压力对于耦合系统的影响。与此前模型相比，我们的模型更加全面，并且可以揭示水合物储层在热激作用下的更多特征。
历次科技革命加速了人类文明的演化进程，并推动了人类生活方式、生产方式和思维方式的根本性变革。在不知不觉中，新的科技革命，已经悄然来到我们身边。张杰院士以物理学家的理性思维，探究科技革命的根本驱动力，厘清新科技革命的基础与思维范式，预见新科技革命带来的机遇和挑战。未来已来，唯变不变，张杰院士将与您一起从人类自身生存发展的需求出发，回顾科学与技术发展的历史，思考人类社会发展的未来。
超短高能量脉冲光纤激光器在通信、传感、精密机械加工等领域均有重要的应用。如何提高激光脉冲的功率和能量，掌握和利用超短脉冲光纤激光的复杂非线性，开展高能量、超宽带全光纤超短脉冲激光应用的关键技术研究，成为了光纤脉冲激光的重要科学问题。我们总结了近年来国内外关于锁模光纤激光器研究的一些关键技术和重要成果，分析了各类激光器及所产生脉冲的优缺点，重点讨论了不同色散区内光纤激光器的典型行为特征，从理论与实验两方面揭示了耗散孤子的产生机理、输出特性及其演化规律。
Checkpoint inhibiting drugs targeting the PD1 pathway represent one of the most encouraging new therapeutics for cancer. Millions of cancer patients have benefited from using checkpoint inhibitors since their first approval in 2014 by the US FDA. However ， most cancer patients do not respond to PD1 pathway inhibitors and those who do eventually develop disease progression. Therefore，there is a strong unmet need to improve the efficacy of PD1 pathway inhibitors or todevelop drugs targeting new immune checkpoint regulators. In this talk，Dr.Chen will discuss new developments in the field of immune checkpoint research and new opportunities for developing the next class of anti-cancer immunotherapeutic drugs.
锯琴技艺传承人李元庆老师自大学毕业伊始便与锯琴结下了深厚的缘分，从学习第一首锯琴音乐开始，到成为锯琴的传承人和推广者，李元庆老师在锯琴领城实现了多个“第一”；全国第一位举办个人锯琴音乐会；第一位撰写论文、出版锯琴著作《中国锯琴艺术论》，第一位出版发行锯琴盒带、CD；第一位出国参加国际锯琴大赛并获奖：；第一位登上高雅的音乐厅举办个人锯琴音乐会；第一位开办中国锯琴研究室并落户深圳；第一位将锯琴成功申报为非物质文化遗产名录的传承人。。。。。。2012年受亚洲锯琴协会、中国音乐家协会锯琴学会托请，李老师开始主持中国锯琴艺术“标准化建设工程，推动中国锯琴的作品创作、乐器制作和教材编写的规范化建设，本次讲座李老师将结合自己多年来对锯琴的理解和认识，带领大家走进锯琴这一重要非遗民间传统音乐项目的世界，了解锯琴的起源发展，在锯琴奇妙的音韵中勾绘出它的“前世今生”。
Achieving desirable building performance is an important objective of architectural design but is often regarded as an "obstacle" to creativity. By considering the performance issues at the early design stage， they may become inspirations for design， especially with the help of computational design methods. In this seminar， three studies investigating how building science can be turned into inspirations for design are reported.A computational design framework and tool helping architects design auditoriums with acoustic requirements as the driving factor;Geometry optimization of acoustic retroreflectors to boost voice support for outdoor spaces;Design experiments examining the effectiveness of a real-time feedback tool in improving building performance and exciting design innovations.
This talk will describe how fuzzy transfer learning can innovatively and effectively learn from data to support data-driven decision-making in uncertain and dynamic situations. The core idea behind fuzzy transfer learning is to leverage previously acquired knowledge to assist in completing a prediction task in a related domain by integrating fuzzy techniques with the transfer  learning process. A set of new fuzzy transfer learning theories，methodologies，and algorithms is introduced，which transfers knowledge learned in one or more source domains to target domains. The fuzzy transfer learning set incorporates:(1)a fuzzy refinement domain adaptation algorithm by utilizing the fuzzy system and similarity/dissimilarity concepts to modify the target instances labels for classification;(2) fuzzy rule-based systems with mapping functions by building latent spaces to facilitate knowledge transfer for regression tasks in both homogeneous and heterogeneous scenarios;(3)unsupervised domain adaptation， to recognize newly emerged patterns in target domains that may be unlabeled. Patterns in target domains and solutions to heterogeneous unsupervised domain adaptation via e.g.， fuzzy equivalence relations. These new developments can enhance date-driven prediction and decision support systems in complex real-world environments. Applications of transfer learning will be discussed at the end.
我们处于一个最好，也是最伟大的时代。智能时代之下，设计创新所连接的不仅仅是研发新的产品，还要重新审视整个商业生态系统以及企业自身的价值创造与获取方式。设计作为促进社会变革和转型的一种力量，在现有的技术条件下，作为一个连接，满足新时代的诉求，从设计的时代性、地域性，探究用户与产品与品牌之间的关系。洛可可则通过创新设计力大力推动着设计与创新、产业的融合发展，探索新的发展模式，为中国产品创新设计迈向国际化、高端化、品牌化注入永续活力。
随着深度神经网络在各个领域的广泛应用，DNN的质量问题也得到了学界和业绩的广泛关注。深度神经网络测试是保证DNN质量的最常用方法之一。深度神经网络测试常常需要将大量带有标注的测试用例输入到DNN模型，并将DNN模型的预测结果与已标注的标签进行比较以检查DNN的准确性。然而标注测试用例往往通过引入大量人力成本，这为DNN测试带来了巨大的开销，对整体测试效率造成影响。为了缓解标注开销的问题，本报告介绍一种新的测试用例排序方法 PRIMA，通过智能变异分析寻找更能揭错的测试输入并在有限的时间内优先进行标注，以提升DNN 测试的效率。
元宇宙经历概念及产业发展正呈现出新的特征与趋势，报告对元宇宙概念及属性进行厘清界定，从技术产业、场景应用、风险治理等角度进行分析。并探讨元宇宙虚实共生世界的科幻前景，由智械外衣到心灵奇旅，从奇点宇宙到瞬息全宇宙，形态交织、生命演替，离地亿万光年，异星超体传输，以大胆的想象勾勒未来世界的图景。
Inactivation of the RB1 tumor suppressor gene is common in several types of therapy-resistant cancers， including metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer， and predicts poor clinical outcomes. Effective therapeutic strategies against RB1-deficient cancers， however， remain elusive. In this presentation，we show that RB1-loss/E2F activation sensitizes cancer cells to ferroptosis，a form of regulated cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation by upregulating expression of ACSL4 and enriching ACSL4-dependent arachidonic acid-containing phospholipids ， which are key components of ferroptosis execution. ACSL4 appears to be a direct E2F target gene and is critical to RB1 loss-induced sensitization to ferroptosis. Importantly. using cell line-derived xenografts and genetically engineered tumor models，we demonstrate that induction of ferroptosis in vivo by JKE-1.674， a highly selective and stable GPX4 inhibitor， blocks RB1-deficient prostate tumor growth and metastasis and leads to improved survival of the mice. Thus， our Findings uncover an RB/E2F/ACSL4 molecular axis that governs ferroptosis， and also Suggest a new approach to the treatment of RB1-deficient malignancies.
扫描隧道显微镜是一个通过探测扫描探针和样品之间的量子隧穿电流来分辨固体表面形貌特征的显微装置。具有极高的实空间分辨率，能够实现样品的原子级分辨率观测，讲座主要介绍扫描隧道显微镜原理及应用。
机器人和高级驾驶员辅助等智能应用极大地使我们的生活更轻松、更美好。出于实时性等各种限制，部分应用需要在移动边缘设备中计算。这些设备通常由电池供电，因此对能效有较高需求，以实现更长的电池充电间隔。另一方面，新的半导体技术（如非易失性存储器、低温微电子）和新的计算范式（如内存计算和神经网络计算）在近年被广泛研究，来实现高能效计算。在此背景下，本次报告主要介绍有关后摩尔时代智能应用的高能效边缘计算的研究工作。在智能应用方面，我们专注于机器人和智能汽车领域。在电路/半导体技术方面，我们专注于RRAM、低温CMOS、近/亚阈值低压电路设计等。在计算范式方面，我们专注于基于SRAM的内存计算和神经网络的FPGA加速。我们还将介绍相关的FPGA研究平台和智能汽车研究平台。这些研究平台使我们能够将上述各个研究题目互动起来并进行跨学科研究和原型设计。
We propose a new concept， oblivious quantum computation，which requires performing oblivious transfer with respect to the computation outcome of the quantum computation ， where the secrecy 0f the input qubits and the program to identify the quantum gates are required. We propose a two-server protocol for this task，which realizes an exponential improvement for the communication complexity over the simple application of two-Server（quantum）oblivious transfer to the sending of the computation result. AIso，We propose another new concept delegated multiparty quantum computation，in which， several users ask multiparty quantum computation to server(s) only using classical communications. We propose a two-server protocol for the latter task as well. This talk is based on the latest arXiy paper: http://arxiv.org/abs/2211.00962.
Motivated by geometric Langlands， we initiate a program to study the mirror symmetry between nilpotent orbit closures of a semisimple Lie algebra and those of its Langlands dual.The most interesting case is Bn via Cn. Classically， there is a famous Springer duality between special orbits. Therefore， it is natural to speculate that the mirror symmetry we seek may coincide with Springer duality in the context of special orbits. Unfortunately， such a naive statement fails. To remedy the situation， we propose a conjecture which asserts the mirror symmetry for certain parabolic/induced covers of special orbits. Then， we prove the conjecture for Richardson orbits and obtain certain partial results in general. In the process， we reveal some very interesting and yet subtle structures of these finite covers， which are related to Lusztig’s canonical quotients of special nilpotent orbits. For example， there is a mysterious asymmetry in the footprint or range of degrees of these finite covers. Finally， we provide two examples to show that the mirror symmetry fails outside the footprint.This is a joint work with Yongbin Ruan and Yaoxiong Wen.
Gravitational instantons are the building blocks of Hawking's quantum gravity theory. They are non-compact hyperK\ahler 4-manifolds with L^2 curvature and can be viewed as the local pieces of K3 surfaces. Similar to K3 surfaces， the cohomology classes of the hyperK\"ahler triples of gravitational instantons induce a period map. In this talk， we will restrict to a particular type of gravitational instanton of type ALH^*. As a side product of studying SYZ mirror symmetry of log Calabi-Yau surfaces， we will prove that the period map is both injective and surjective. As a consequence， the period domain is the moduli space of ALH^*-gravitational instantons. The talk is based on joint works with T. Collins， A. Jacob and the joint work with T.-J. Lee."
真核生物中具有染色质重塑因子能够与辅助亚基结合形成多亚基复合体，介导核小体的组装、去除、移位以及组蛋白变体的置换等过程。以往植物中的研究发现了许多染色质重塑复合体的保守组分，并研究了它们的生物学功能然而缺乏对植物染色质重塑复合体的系统研究，这限制了我们对植物染色质重塑复合体功能的理解。我们系统鉴定了植物中的ISWI，SWR1，INO80及SWI/SNF等几种重要染色质重塑复合体的亚基组成，发现了染色质重塑复合体的多个植物特异亚基，揭示了植物染色质重塑与其他染色质修饰独特的偶联机制。这些研究为进一步探索植物中染色质重塑的生物学功能和分了机制奠定了基础。
大豆玉米带状复合种植，是国家解决大豆进口依赖问题的战略性技术。该模式因两个作物除草剂不兼容，除草效率低、成本高。我们通过前沿分子育种技术，培育出国际领先且具有完全自主知识产权的耐大豆除草剂玉来品种。通过试验示范，该类玉米配套耐阴大豆，利用现有高地自走式打药机或无人机可进行无差别喷药，同时杀灭绝大多数禾本科和阔叶类杂草，杂草防效高达99%，及大提高了除体效率，解决了两个作物苗后除草难题，同时保持复合种植玉米产量与当地单作平均水平相当、多收一季大豆的良好效果。
本报告主要介绍毫米波国家重点实验室及其合作单位近年来在毫米波与太赫兹技术方面的一些研究进展及其在通信等领域的一些应用，包括毫米波与太赫兹高集成度多通道硅基集成电路、滤波天线、大规模MIMO多波束阵列、波束可控液晶阵列天线、空联网（loS）中的毫米波宽带传输技术、毫米波WiFi、智慧交通雷达等。
In this talk，as Editor-in-Chief of journals，the  speaker will share some of his experience in publishing papers in journals， In particular，he will discuss issues related to the paper handling and reviewing processes. He will also highlight matters that authors should be aware of and the good practice in reviewing papers and joint authorship.
宋丁是国际著名学者费孝通教授的首届研究生，国家高端智库•中国综合开发研究院研究员，中国城市经济学会理事，部分省市及大型企业高级顾问，两大央企董事，广东省房地产行业协会专家，央视、凤凰卫视等国内主流媒体特约嘉宾。宋丁在城市经济、产业经济、文旅地产等领域从事研究咨询工作多年，已出版《城市学》《企业策划》《文旅与地产：顺势而为》《城市转型升级的深圳启示》等专著、合著20多部，发表各类论文800多篇；主持参与了400多项有关项目的策划、规划、可行性研究和发展咨询，为各地政府和大型企业做出了重要贡献，是国内城市经济、产业经济和文旅地产领域的杰出专家。
制造业是立国之本、兴国之器、强国之基，是实体经济的重要基础，也是大国博弈、国际产业竞争的焦点。而作为制造业中知识密集、创新活跃、成长性好、附加值高的关键领域，先进制造业近些年来已然成为一国经济高质量发展的重要推动力和国家安全的重要支柱，引领未来产业发展方向。提高制造业自主创新能力、做大做强制造业，需要以创新设计引领制造业升级。创新设计将知识、技术、信息和创意转化成产品、工艺、装备、服务的先导，决定着制造与服务的品质、价值、成本。如何理解创新设计？创新设计在企业转型、产业升级中有着怎样的作用？作为《中国制造2025》创新设计板块的执笔者，刘曦卉博士将通过一个全局性的认知框架，辅以相关案例，为大家讲解创新设计概念，以及其在先进制造业中可以发挥的作用。
活动议程   （一）致辞1、未来科学大奖代表- 林潮，未来科学大奖科学委员会2022轮值主席，美国加州大学圣克鲁兹分校天体物理学教授，美国人文与科学院院士  2、南方科技大学代表- 薛其坤，南方科技大学校长，中国科学院院士，2016未来科学大奖-物质科学奖获奖者   （二）主题演讲− 杨学明，南方科技大学副校长兼理学院院长，中国科学院院士，2022未来科学大奖-物质科学奖获得者− 方维海，北京师范大学化学学院教授，中国科学院院士− 周鸣飞，复旦大学化学系教授   （三）对话环节（按照姓氏首字母顺序）− 方维海，北京师范大学化学学院教授，中国科学院院士− 胡水明，中国科学技术大学化学物理系教授、合肥微尺度物质科学国家研究中心尖端测量仪器研究部主任- 罗毅，中国科学技术大学未来技术学院执行院长、合肥微尺度物质科学国家研究中心主任− 杨学明，南方科技大学副校长兼理学院院长，中国科学院院士，2022未来科学大奖-物质科学奖获得者− 张东辉，中科院大连化物所分子反应动力学国家重点实验室主任，中国科学院院士− 周鸣飞，复旦大学化学系教授
Successful implementation of quantum information processing applications requires achieving robust qubits that are well protected from the environmental noise. As such，spectral characterization of noise environments that lead to the decoherehce of qubits is critical for quantum hardware design. Over the past decade，various dynamical decoupling-based methods were designed for characterization of the noise spectra. However these approaches come at the cost of applying large or complex squences of pulses. In this talk， l will go over the developments of the field， and introduce a novel noise spectroscopy method that utilizes only the Fourier transform of free induction decay measurements. This mathod faithfully recovers the correct noise spectra and outperforms the current dynamical decoupling schemes while significantly reduces the experimental overhead. I also discuss the experimental feasibility of this method with respect to reguiring fast pulses. In particular， I will present a quantum control method for achieving extremely fast pulses in optically active systems（such as Quantum dots and color centers)， while avoiding the leakage to the nearby unwanted states. The presented methods are applicable to a wide range of quantum platforms and provide a more practical path towards a more accurate spectral characterization and control of quantum platforms.
生活方式医学与癌症免疫学、专值夜班诊疗、临床信息学和远程医疗一起，被列为五大美国新兴医学专科。该学科在中国的落地发展将成为"健康中国"的重要学科抓手，为全民健康做出不可替代的贡献。为探讨生活方式医学的发展与未来，结合校园健康教育，南科大健康第十二期邀请附属医院各单位健康管理科专家团队到我校开展“南科大健康”生活方式医学主题活动。
Digital transformation and intelligent development have become an important way to improve the competitiveness of all walks of life in the digital economy era. This lecture briefly analyzes the situation faced by the petroleum geophysical exploration industry，expounds the objectives and main contents of the digital and intelligent transformation(digital transformation and intelligent development）of the petroleum geophysical exploration industry， proposes five key actions that should be taken for the digital and intelligent transformation，and systematically analyzes the important opportunities and multiple challenges faced by the digital and intelligent transformation.
党的二十大报告指出， “中国式现代化，是中国共产党领导的社会主义现代化，既有各国现代化的共同特征，更有基于自己国情的中国特色”。中国文化产业发展见证了中国如何从自立到自强的历史进程，遵循着一条独特的发展逻辑。中华优秀传统文化是促进文化产业发展的重要资源，坚持创造性转化、创新性发展需要扭转观念偏差，转变传承思路和更新弘扬方法。进入数字时代，文化产业如何进一步赋能传统文化创新，是推进文化自信自强，铸就社会主义文化新辉煌的重要命题。
通过对X射线及其行射原理的介绍，分析X射线衍射仪的几种常用光路的几何光学，更好的了解设备和掌握更多的测试技巧和方法。结合近期用户在测试时出现的问题进行实例分析，讲解粉未样品制备要求、极少量样品和小角度的衍射峰测量方法和参数的调整、常见的薄膜衍射方法等。
孙骏胤，中兴通讯股份有限公司党委办公室副主任、团委书记。南京理工大学通信与信息系统专业硕士，加入中兴通讯后先后从事研发、战略投资、内部运营与行政管理等岗位，担任过手机硬件开发工程师、战略投资经理、公司级战略合作总监、公司经营委员会秘书处秘书、董事长秘书等职务。
全球经济发展了，但群体之间、国家之间的矛盾减少了吗？民众的教育水平越来越高，但社会心态变得更加开放包容了吗？数字技术使国际交流空前便利，但不同文化间的相互了解更深了吗？全球化有退潮之势，世界似乎在变得更加动荡，而这种动荡对“00后”的未来意味着什么？如何分析和看待国际冲突？如何通过媒体报道接近事实真相？我们又能为世界和平做些什么？穿梭于中美之间的青年学者张瑞时将为你分享他的跨文化哲学思考。
古菌是第三种生命形式，与细菌及真核生物并列的三大生物域之一。古菌不仅称霸高温热泉、深海热液口等极端环境，更广泛存在子于海洋、湿地和动物肠道等温和环境。古菌适应极端环境变化的法宝之一是它们拥有独树一职的单分子层细胞膜脂类结构-一四醚脂类GDGTs。我们通过古菌遗传学方法，首次发现一系列古菌GDGTs合成酶基因，闸明它们的表达调控机制，最终揭示GDGTs响应不同环境变化的生理功能，古菌GDGTs的研究有助于我们认识生命适应极端环境的机制，早期生命起源演化过程，乃至于地球古环境古气候变迁的历史。
植物的生长发育过程不仅受到内部发育信号如激素的调控，也受到外界信号如光和逆境信号等的调节，因此植物如何整合内外信号进而调控生长发育是一个有趣且重要的科学问题。本次报告将以FTIP（FT-Interacting Proteins）家族蛋白为切入点，汇报FTIPS介导互作蛋白的运输、互作蛋白与其互作因子如何协同调控靶基因进而调控水稻生长发育的分子机制：如通过影响激素合成调控水稻育性和参与成花素转运调控水稻抽穗期的机理；调节水稻高效合理应答非生物胁迫以保证胁迫应答和生长发育之间的能量平衡分配的机制。还将进一步展望该家族蛋白与其互作蛋白在植物适应性和产量方面的作用。
1.申请国家自然科学基金的心得有创新的思想，写好申请书，得到各方面的支持，总体能实现的综合目标2.信息融合与故障诊断研究现状分析与展望（1）多源信息融合与目标检测识别和跟踪（2）故障诊断与健康管理，复杂工程系统安全评估与安全运行3）人工智能智能制造与智慧城市。
We present an effective BV quantization theory for chiral deformation of two dimensional conformal field theories. We explain a connection between the quantum master equation and the chiral homology for vertex operator algebras. As an application， we construct correlation functions of the curved beta-gamma/b-c system and establish a coupled equation relating to chiral homology groups of chiral differential operators. This can be viewed as the vertex algebra analogue of the trace map in algebraic index theory. The talk is based on the recent work arXiv:2112.14572 [math.QA].
Hitchin’s integrable systems lie in the crossroads of geometry， representation theory， and mathematical physics. I will discuss two central conjectures raised in the last two decades which greatly influenced the development for the algebraic geometry of Hitchin moduli spaces. The first is the P=W conjecture， which concerns the interaction of the topology of the Hitchin system and the non-abelian Hodge correspondence. The second is the topological mirror symmetry conjecture which connects the Langlands duality of groups and the mirror symmetry for Hitchin systems. I will explain that both conjectures can be proved in a uniform way， via vanishing cycles techniques and support theorem. Based on joint work with Davesh Maulik.
在虚拟现实（VR）系统中，用户可查看虚拟内容并与之交互，其中，虚拟对象的选择和操控是VR环境中两个重要的基本任务。与更传统的平台相比，VR场景中的交互不够精确和高效，需要付出更多的工作量。我将介绍在VR场景中如何有效地选择和操控虚拟对象的技术设计方向的最新工作。首先讨论如何利用用户行为信息来开发优化的对象选择技术；然后介绍我们如何使用隐性信息，例如眼睛注视数据和手持控制器来补充和增强对象操纵；最后介绍最新的在VR场景中，如何有效地进行多用户操纵对象组的交互研究。
这是一个启发性的学术报告。黄铠教投将探讨大数据、AI芯片、5G/6G通讯网络、与边缘感知设备等关键技术。终板目标是建设智能物联医疗云与智慧城市的生态系统。面对大数据感知，机器学习认知，与群体人工智能应用的挑战，他将报告最近他的团队在这些领域的攻关项目及其发展现况。举例说明机器学习模型训练，算法优化，及对实现群体智能的具体要求。在报告中，他将强调智能云认知与物联网感知的无缝结合，为智慧城市、数字经济，远程医疗与全民健保，建立与时俱进的生态环境与工业体系。
In this talk，the cooperative output regulation problem for heterogeneous linear multi-agent systems with jointly connected directed communication topologies via event-triggered control protocol will be presented. First，the event-triggered control approach will be briefly reviewed. Then for the considered systems，a distributed event-triggered control strategy is proposed todeal with the jointly connected digraphs. With this control strategy，the tracking error of the closed-loop system converges to zero exponentially with intermittent communication. The continuous monitoring issue is also solved. Moreover， Zeno behavior can be avoided by providing a positive minimum inter-event time.
With an increasing human population， medical research is pushed to progress into an era of precision therapy，Through adoptive transfer of human stem cells into immunodeficient mice，we have established various humanized mouse models，with stable human blood， liver and other biological systems. These humanised mice are at the very heart of this new forefront where it is acutely required to decipher human-specific disease pathogenesis and test an array of novel therapeutics.Our humanized mouse models have been used to successfully support the in vivo studies of many human diseases including infectious pathogens， cancers， metabolic diseases and autoimmune diseases and closely recapitulate disease pathogenesis and drug mechanisms in humans. This presentation will focus on the background of humanised mice， disease modelling and human-specific mechanisms and therapeutics tested on this platform for future clinical use.
The cart-pole system is a benchmark example for both classical nonlinear control design and reinforcement learning. The challenge involves two steps: 1）swinging up the pole to the upward position and 2）balancing the pole in the upward position while bringing the cart position back to its initial position. In this talk， I will discuss this control problem with two purposes. Firstly，l will provide a theoretically provable nonlinear controller for the system under the assumption that the system model is available. Secondly，I will then study model-free control design but with the assumption that the system structure is known.This will be compared with the reinforcement learning approach in terms of both control performance and learning complexities. I will also take this opportunity to introduce some other research works of mine ，with the purpose of seeking collaborations. In particular，I will discusss briefly a recent work on ultra high precision tracking with potential applications in nano-scale image scanning and super resolution resonance generation.
由TCL公益基金会支持的创新创业大讲堂特别邀请南方科技大学校长、中国科学院院士薛其坤，作题为《学术之路》的报告。
学习如何做研究生对于学校高水平人才培养以及学生个人成长都具有重要意义。报告人基于几十年的研究生指导经验，拟从以下十个方面讲授如何做好研究生：如何走进师门，如何参加讨论班，如何参加科研，如何读学术论文，如何参加学术会议，如何摆写学术文章，如何摆写学位论文，如何进行自我管理，如何对待师生关系，如何走出师门。希望对广大研究生的成长有所帮助和启发。
Conventional lithium-ion batteries(LiBs)， which revolutionized the mobile electronics industry ，are widely used in daily life. However， the rapidly growing application of LIBs has raised concerns regarding their energy density limit and potential safety risks caused by the flammable organic liquid electrolytes. All-solid-state lithium batteries (ASSLBs) utilizing solid-stateel ectrolytes(ssEs) not only possess enhanced safety but may also offer new opportunities for the utilization of high-voltage cathode materials and high-capacity electrodes to achieve high-energy-density batteries. In addition，ASSLBs also possess further advantages including SSEs with high Li+ transfer efficiency， simple battery design，and a wide range of operating temperature. Nevertheless， ASSLBs still have challenges such as limited ionic conductivity and interface issues，So we will talk about the challenges and opportunities of all-solid-state batteries in this report.
质谱技术由于具有灵敏度高、样品用量少、检测速度快等优点被广泛应用于化学化工、环境能源、医药、生命及材料科学等领域。该讲座将介绍质谱技术的基本原理及其应用、实验室提供的各项测试服务及应用举例。
I will discuss the oscillatory integrals on the mirror Landau-Ginzburg models for toric mirrors. They are related to genus zero Gromov-Witten invariants and are compatible with homological mirror symmetry. The asymptotic expansion of such integrals leads to the Gamma II conjecture for toric varieties. I will also report some recent progress in some non-toric situation inspired by the Gross-Siebert program.
Inside a symplectic leaf of the cluster Poisson variety of Borel-decorated $PGL_2$ local systems on a punctured surface is an isotropic subvariety we will call the “chromatic Lagrangian.” Local charts for the quantized cluster variety are quantum tori defined by cubic planar graphs， and can be put in standard form after some additional markings giving the notion of a “framed seed.” The mutation structure is encoded as a groupoid. The local description of the chromatic Lagrangian defines a “wavefunction” which， we conjecture， encodes open Gromov-Witten invariants of a Lagrangian threefold in threespace defined by the cubic graph and the other data of the framed seed. We also find a relationship we call “framing duality”: for a family of “canoe” graphs， wavefunctions for different framings encode DT invariants of symmetric quivers.This talk is based on joint work with Gus Schrader and Linhui Shen.
这是一个绵亘千年的重要国度。但所谓的“拜占庭帝国”，乃是西方近代史学的充满意识形态意味的建构。他们发明“拜占庭”的概念，不是为了客观地讲述和闸明它，而是为了刻意地压抑和贩低它。这个报告将会讨论“拜占庭”出现的缘起，然后简单回顾它在历史上的几次严重危机，最后概括它在中古地中海世界的“枢纽”地位。
1.真核微藻具有生长繁殖快、光合效率高、三套遗传转化系统、兼性营养且具有可食性等优良性状，是重要食品资源及天然活性产物生物合成的“细胞工厂”。本报告在介绍国内外微藻生物产业发展现状和国家海洋局深圳微藻产业协同创新公共服务平台的基础上，重点介绍真核微藻基因工程与合成生物学领域面临的机遇与挑战。2.微藻种类多样、代谢产物丰富，可以用于生产替代蛋白、功能脂肪酸及其他生物活性物质，在食品、保健品、化妆品等领域具有重要的应用价值。目前微藻的生产方式以农业生产方式为主，生产效率较低。本报告从微藻初创企业的视角分享微藻产业中的问题和以及企业的解决方式，并且以案例的方式展示产业中的应用研究。
为了更好地实现人和机器人的交互，精准测量人的意图是其中的关键。人的意图可以通过多种技术手段进行估计，如语言、手势、表情等。本次报告将主要介绍新型多模态人机交互系统，聚焦视线估计算法，并通过融合眼动、脑电及环境信息等多模态信号，实现“意念控制”、“指哪打哪”的用户意图智能预测。同时，运用虚拟现实技术，将虚拟场景和真实机器人系统结合，构建虚实融合的人机交互系统，为实现下一代人机交互系统提供基础。
作为一种新型的机电能量转换装置，摩擦纳米发电机（TENG）有望对环境泛在低频机械能实现高效收集和可靠感知，在物联网、人机交互等分布式传感供能领域具有巨大的应用前景，我将向大家汇报本课题组在基于TENG的自驱动传感系统、触觉感知及新型人机交互界面等方面的最新研究进展。
李小甘，广东省深圳市委原常委、宣传部原部长，现为深圳市文化创意与设计联合会会长、深圳读书月总顾问，中国作家协会会员，编著有《文化的力量》 《面向未来的深圳设计》《文化创新进行时》 《深圳十大文化名片》和《看云集》 《世界这么大》等专著，参与策划拍摄了电视剧《钢铁是怎样炼成的》等影视作品。
自前全球每年的数据量呈现爆炸式增长，这极大地增加了数据中心存储系统的成本和负担，数据去重是一项适用于大规模存储系统的数据缩减技术，可以有效快速地消除存储系统的元余数据从而降低存储系统的存储成本，但同时也引进了巨大的计算开销和管理开销。本次报告将主要介绍课题组在数据去重分块和去重后存诸管理的最新研究工作，尝试在数据去重系统框架上优化数据去重流程，实现高性能数据去重效果，同时也分享一下课题组对未来数据去重技术的智能化、多元化、可维护性等方面的一些思考。
面对更新锐的市场与更多元的消费者需求，消费电子该如何突围？让我们回归产品规划来尝试破局。
The Bistrizer-MacDonald(BM) model predicted the existence of the narrow bands in the magic-angle twisted bilayer graphene (MATBG)， and nowadays is a starting point for most theoretical works. In this talk， I will briefly review the BM model and then present the derivation of a continuum field theory [1] based on a microscopic tight binding model allowing arbitrary smooth lattice deformation including the small twist angle. With the gradient expansion to the second order， the continuum thoery for MATBG[2] produces the spectrum that almost perfectly matches the spectrum of the spectrum of the microscopic model，suggesting the validity of this theory. In the presence of the lattice deformation， the inclusion of the pseudo-vector potential does not destroy but shift the flat band chiral limit to a smaller twist angle. Furthermore， the continuum theory contains another important interlayer tunneling term that was overlooked in all previous works. This term non-negligibly breaks the particle-hole symmetry of the narrow bands and may be related with the experimentally observed particle-hole asymmetry. 
1.Memory interference is a common cause of forgetfulness. The hippocampus is the core brain region of memory. Dentate gyrus is the first step of information transfer into the hippocampus. Theoretical models have predicted a crucial role for the dentate gyrus in pattern separation，aprocess that reduces overlapping of inputs and enhances dissimilarity between representations and thus avoid memory interference. We aimed to investigate the place field properties of different cell types of dentate gyrus and their roles in pattern separation. We also investigated the physiological properties of hippocampal CA1 neurons as a consequence of dentate gyrus loss of function. We used tetrode recording，as well as juxtacellular labeling and recording in freely moving rats to distinguish different cell types in dentate gyrus. Utilizing a mouse line lacking dentate gyrus，we performed microendoscopic calcium imaging in CAl to examine the function of dentate gyrus on CA1.Our data suggest that different cell types in dentate gyrus performed pattern separation using different mechanisms and dentate gyrus was necessary for the CA1 neurons to accurately represent spatial locations.2.Understanding the relationship between Cancer cell proliferation and tumor microenvironment is highly challenging using in vivo bioimaging techniques. The applicant's research interests focus on the molecular design of optical imaging probes，which can label and track the tumor cells and other cells (eg.，immune cells mesenchymal stem cells) for long-term in vivo imaging studies. Wehave explored a series of exogenous cell trackers with optimized optical properties. Especially. the intrinsic signal dilution effect of traditional exogenous optical trackers has been surmounted to ensure long-term in vivo tracking of tumor growth. With the aid of multimodality fluorescent and photoacoustic probes，the dynamic migration of immune cells(e.g.，macrophages)in disease microenvironment can be analyzed using across- platform imaging approach. In future，we plan to develop optical probes that are capable of regulating the tumor microenvironment and elucidate the changes of cell-cell interaction during these biological processes.
相比于传统智能设备，新型智能设备在形态、功能、尺型、硬件组成等方面具有独特属性，这既给用户情境信息的挖掘带来了机遇，也为面向新型设备交互技术带来了挑战。一方面，由于新型智能设备的类型和所内置传感器的种类要丰富得多且其与用户更加切近能够获取到用户更为深层次的情境信息。因此，有必要研究面向新型智能终端的高效交互技术，主要解决装载传感器种类、数量的限制与交互需求之间的矛盾，以及算力、能量与实时精细交互之间的矛盾。
通过被动接收非合作辐射源信号并测量其参数来确定辐射源位置的无源定位技术在电子侦察、预警探测、无线电监测和搜索救援等应用中具有重要价值，本报告主要介绍多站测向交叉定位、时差（TDOA）定位、时差（TDOA）/频差（FDOA）定位及单站无源定位等多种无源定位技术体制的基本原理、方法及其相关典型应用。
This lecture will introduce the stories behind the discovery of amino acids and oxalic diamides as the ligands for promoting Cu-catalyzed coupling reactions during the preparation of bioactive molecules，as well as the synthetic design of two classes of pharmaceutically important alkaloids.
光刻是集成电路制造中的核心工艺，它负责把设计图形高保真地转移到硅片上，光刻工艺占据了芯片制造总成本的1/3以上。先进光刻工艺是由设备、材料和软件支撑的。光刻机负责对准和曝光，匀胶显影机负责涂胶和噪光后的显影。光刻胶和显影液负责把曝光时的空间像转换成光刻胶图形。电镜和套刻误差测量设备负责对硅片上得到的图形质量进行最后的监测。设计图形必须经过计算光刻软件处理后才可以被制备到拖模版上用于曝光，同时，拖模版图必须与光刻机的噪光方式协同才可以得到最佳的分辨率。本报告介绍集成电路先进光刻（14nm及以下技术节点）中使用的设备、材料与软件，以及它们之间是如何协同优化的。
With rapid progress in fabrication and control ， the coherent time of artificial quantum systems such as ultracold atoms and superconducting circuits has been improved significantly which makes them possible to explore exotic quantum dynamical behavior. In this talk， I present our recent work on achieving a new topological phase of matter in quasiperiodically driven systems. The new QFTEP can be oxperimentally realized in one-dimensional fermionic systems with two incommensurate driven freguencies， and is characterized by topologically protected quantized energy transport between the inommensurate driving modes. For a compactly occoupied fermionic chain the energy transport is achieved by absorbing a photon at one end and emitting anothor photon with the Second frequency at the other end. Such a non-trivial topological phase requires localization in both frequeney and spatial domains which means a moderate amount of spatial disorder will be in favor of the formation oF QFTEP. The effect oF interactions is discussed briefly: it is slhown numerically that QFTEP wil probably survive over weak interactions: As an alternative to observe the new topological phase， a primitive model of a two-level system driven by three mutually incommensurate frequencies is presented at last.
To understand molecular mechanisms of cellular pathways， contemporary workflows typically require multiple techniques to identify proteins，track their localization， and determine their structures in vitro. Here， we developed a visual proteomics approach to address these questions and understand how mammalian sperm are built. Our in situ cryo-electron tomography and subtomogram averaging provided 6.0 A reconstructions of axonemal microtubule structures. The well-resolved tertiary structures allowed us to computationally match， in an unbiased mannner，novel densities with 21，615 AlphaFold-predicted protein models of the mouse proteome. We identified novel sperm proteins that form an extensive interaction network crosslinking the lumen of microtubules， suggesting roles in modulating the mechanical properties of the microtubule filaments during flagellar beating.
As the first excavated ancient copper mining and smelting site in China， the Tonglushan site is highly evaluated by academia as one fundamental copper resource of the Chinese Bronze Age civilization. In this view， the site is regarded as the birthplace of Chinese bronze technology by the local government and is aimed to be titled a World Heritage.Based on one-year fieldwork at Daye county， China， this talk intends to present the negotiations behind the heritagisation process of Tonglushan. Specifically， to figure out the uniqueness of this mineral-based heritage place， the speaker investigates how the UNESCO concept of heritage practice at one Chinese archaeological site. In what ways do the authorized stakeholders interpret the site with national significance and universal value? And what have they met during the application of this interpretation? The concept of “heritage” itself and the inhabitants’ local knowledge and memory of the place will be the main focuses.
椭偏仪设备由于检测速度快，精度较高，广泛应用于材料学、微电子、光学、化学等相关领域，测量材料的光学泪关参数以及薄膜膜厚。本次主要介绍椭偏仪设备的发展、设备原理及样品测试条件、工作范围等，并且简要介绍椭偏仪建模基础及部分案例。
非酒精性脂肪肝疾病（NAFLD）包括脂肪肝和更为严重的肝脏疾病如非酒精性脂肌性肝炎（NASH），肝硬化等。NAFLD向NASH的发展可以诱发多种疾病如肝硬化，肝癌以及心血管疾病等，但其机制仍不十分清楚。我们利用组织特异性的基因敲除小鼠和细胞，结合RNAseq等生物信息学方法，并通过细胞生物学和生物化学等实验，证实了新近发现的cGAS/STING免疫信号通路通过调控巨噬细胞吞噬功能，在NASH的发生发展过程中起着非常重要的作用。此外我们发现肝脏中的巨噬细胞是一把双刃剑，对于肝脏损伤修复和维持肝脏稳态至关重要。我们的研究不仅阐明了cGAS调控巨噬细胞吞噬功能的机制，也为治疗NASH等肝脏疾病提任了新的药物靶点。
陈家喜，现为深圳改革开放干部学院党委委员、副院长，国家社科基金重大项目首席专家，深圳市国家级领军人才；兼任深圳大学城市治理研究院教授，博士生导师；长期专注于社会治理、党的建设与网络治理的问题研究。
本讲座将由何华博士以其业界深厚经验及资深学术背景，为大家介绍中国固定收益市场的发展现状和当前面临的投资机会，及金融机构对固定收益相关人才的需求。何博士还将带来九鞅科技之固定收益Bond IQ系统—实现科技赋能固收市场研究及实践的完美结合。
Deep learning has achieved impressive successes in a wide range of applications and has been applied in many branches of scientific research. In this talk，we provide a review of basic deep learning methodology and algorithms and present several recently developed learning methods from a statistical perspective，focusing on deep generative learning，semi-supervised learning，and representation learning. We then discuss applications of these methods to biomedical data  analysis， including analysis of medical imaging，electronic health record，and single-cell genomics data.
We examine the relationship between audit quality and audit-office level individual auditor turnover in the U.S.Using resumes of over 140，000 auditors from Indeed.com and Linkedin we find that audit offices with higher turnover have a greater likelihood of annual report restatements by clients，and are more likely to fail to detect material weakness in clients' internal controls over financial reporting. The detrimental effect of auditor turnover is mainly attributable to the departure of auditors with 4-8 years' experience，and is more pronounced for less important clients， for engagements with long auditor tenure and for large offices. Our results are robust to using outside job opportunities as an instrument variable and alternative measures of audit quality. Our findings directly inform the current policy debate initiated by the PCAOB on whether disclosures of audit quality indicators， particularly auditor turnover ， will help investors better evaluate audit guality.
笼目晶格本征携带狄拉克费米子、电子平带和范霍夫奇点。狄拉克电子引入了能带拓扑；电子平带助长了磁性涨落；范霍夫奇点则带来了长程电子序。它们在量子层次的共同作用引发了一系列拓扑笼目磁体和超导体的发现。我将讨论该领域的发现与发展，包括笼目晶体电子结构的基本概念，陈数磁体和外尔磁体的发现，多种形式的平带多体关联，电荷密度波以及超导态的谜团。我将阐述最新发现与原始概念的联系，笼目磁体与笼目超导体的联系，以及它们和拓扑绝绿体、外尔半金属、高温超导的联系。该领域的进展广泛地连接了量子霍尔和多体关联物理，并深刻地拓展了量子演生前沿。
此报告将简单介绍EDA发展的历史，现状和未来以及EDA的工具链在芯片设计制造中的各个环节所起到的作用。通过展示EDA全景图，我们将看到在工艺器件仿真，设计综合验证，物理实现流程，生产制造测试和良率缺陷分析等各阶段EDA工具的功能及其背后实现的基础。
以深度学习为代表的人工神经网络是机器学习最重要的方法之一，在云端和终端都有非常广泛的应用（例如广告推荐、自动翻译、语音识别、图像识别等）。然而传统的CPU和GPU芯片在进行神经网络处理时遇到了严重的性能和能耗瓶颈。我们提出了国际上首个深度学习指令集，和Inria合作设计了国际上首个深度学习专用处理器架构，能将深度学习处理能耗降低多个数量级。在此基础上研制了国际上首个深度学习专用处理器芯片，引起了国际同行的广泛关注。
I will explain some developments in the  study of the log Chow ring of the moduli space of curves: tautological classes，piecewise polynomials， and  the log DR cycle.
赵博士主要针对半导体微纳加工相关制程与技术展开报告。微/纳加工相关工艺，例如，光刻、薄膜沉积、干/湿发刻蚀、离子注入、平坦化、电镀、晶圆/芯片键合等。以及不同材料级种类器件的工艺集成，例如，CMOS硅工艺、薄膜晶体管MEMS、微流体、GaN发光二极管及晶体管、SiC工艺、硅光子学、新进封装等。
高性能计算（High Performance Computing）是计算机科学与工程中发展时间最长的领域。在本次报告中，我们将探讨高性能计算在过去10年中的变化并展望未来的发展趋势，重点关注高性能计算、大数据和机器学习的融合带来的挑战和机遇。
互联网学习是指学生在互联网构建的灵活时空中，利用数字化资源与工具开展学习活动来实现知识、技能与态度等方面的发展。数字素养是个体为适应数字环境与全面参与社会生活所必须具备的能力。在互联网学习情境下，提升学习者的数字素养有助于其有效利用学习环境中的资源与工具，从而提升自身的互联网学习质量。然而，在互联网学习情境下发展数字素养面临两个关键的问题。其一，不断涌现的数字素养定义与框架加剧了数字素养概念的模糊性，引发了实践者的诸多困惑。其二，面向互联网学习的数字素养缺乏专门的评估框架与测量工具，无法为实践提供足够支持。本研究一方面基于典型的数字素养框架，深入辨析了数字素养的概念与特征；另一方面结合互联网学习情境特征，构建了面向该情境的数字素养框架，并开发了相应的评估工具，以此为相关实践提供支持。
邱杨，英国谢菲尔德大学透射电子显微镜学博士。2011年起从事透射电子显微镜表征的相关工作，在国际期刊上以第一作者及合作作者发表相关论文40余篇，目前主要负责高分辨透射电镜、Talos透射电镜等设备。
随着无人驾驶与机器人技术的发展，越来越多的应用要求机器人系统可以适用于长时间大范围的自主工作模式。但是在GPS不稳定或者没有GPS的情况下（矿区、林区、地下、火星等），制约机器人长航程自主规划决策的一个关键技术难点在于鲁棒的重定位。在现实生活中，重定位往往伴随着随着复杂的空间地理信息、光照季节的变化、视角的变化等影响。同时不同种类机器人运动模态的偏差和视角的差异性也会导致不同机器人之间的协同定位难度提高。本次交流将结合我们目前的DARPA和NASA项目，分享针对移动机器人、无人机、多机器人协同定位等问题的最新研究进展：1.针对大型无人机系统在长航程、跨模态的半监督定位导航；2.不依赖GPS的城市规模高精度建图系统；3.针对于长航程、大尺度范围的探索需求，不依赖初始位置的多机器人协同规划研究；4终生学习在机器人定位导航中的研究进展。
以口粮作物水稻与危害粮食安全最严重的稻瘟菌之间的互作为模式，开展作物抗病理论创新和应用研究。发掘和创制了广谱抗病水稻新资源13份并克隆具有重要育种价值的抗病基因13个；发现了水稻广谱抗病系列新机理：率先提出并论证了水稻抗病与高产协同促进的学术观点：揭示了稻瘟菌致病新机理并成功开发防治作物真菌病害的绿色生态新药物：将理论与实践紧密结合，培育了抗病水稻新品种23个，累计推广面积达8000万亩。
Plant roots associate with diverse microbes (bacteria，fungi，and viruses） collectively called the rhizosphere microbiome， Among them，mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia colonize host roots and Improve their access to nutrients， phosphorus and nitrogen. My research focus on the genetics， biochemistry and cell biology of two symbiotic interactions of plants that can help to achieve higher crop yields with less usage of fertilizers: One is the arbuscular mycorrhizal association that helps the host plant to uptake nutrients from the soil and is especially important for plant acquisition of phosphate and nitrogen. The other is the rhizobial symbiosis that provides a source of nitrogen to the host plant.In addition，we propose to transfer our knowledge of the symbiosis into agronomical important food crops such as maize， wheat and rice to increase nutrient and water using efficiency，with the aim of boosting the food supply for future generations. Recentlythe frameworks ofnutrient exchange and regulation between host plant and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi orrhizobia have recently been established. I will talk about our recent progresses on signal perception and nutrient exchange in plant-microbe symbioses.
王立新，现任广东省水利厅党组书记、厅长，曾任深圳市副市长。清华大学工学博士，在水利、环保、城市规划方面有较深造诣，曾长期从事政府科技、工业、贸易、社会管理等领域工作。
一座城市，激荡40年，深圳日新月异的奇迹背后，是一代又一代深圳人奋进的点点星光，聚而成炬。一家公司，以强大民族，装备世界为己任，大族激光历经26年风雨洗礼，从华强北走向全球脚踏实地，持续创新，赢得了国际的尊重。一个国家，筚路褴褛，经过几代人的努力，在逐渐实现民族伟大的复兴，中国特色社会主义建设，处处放光芒。10月13日，大族激光陈炎与你分享《守圳创新，进而有为》。
Prof.Qikun Xue is a member of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He received his BSc degree from Shandong University in 1984，  and PhD in condensed matter physics from Institute of Physics， the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1994. He was elected into the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2005. He was the Vice President for Research of Tsinghua University from 2013 to 2020 and became the third President of Southern University of Science and Technology in 2020. He is also Director of Beijing Academy of Quantum Information Sciences and Vice Chairman of Chinese Physical Society. Dr.Xue is a world renowned experimental physicist and his research interests include scanning tunneling microcopy/spectroscopy， molecular beam epitaxy， low-dimensional and interface-related superconductivity， topological insulators， and quantum size effects in various low-dimensional structures. He won the TWAS Prize in Physics in 2010， the Future Science Prize for Physical Sciences in 2016， State Natural Science Award(the First Prize）in 2018， The Fritz London Memorial Prize in 2020， Outstanding Contribution Zhongguancun Award， Beijing Science and Technology Award in 2020， Fudan-Zhongzhi Science Award in 2020.
器件SPICE模型是集成电路设计与艺制造的桥梁与纽带，精准的器件SPICE模型是集成电路成功研制的保障和必要条件，半导体器件模型的开发以器件物理机理研究为基础，以器件性能的准确测试为依据，在此基础上进行易于计算机仿真的数学表征。本报告将首先介绍器件SPICE模型的发展历史，然后将重点对器件常规电学模型开发的全流程进行介绍，包括器件测试结构的设计、器件测试内容的确定、模型参数的提取及模型质量的验证等。另外，将对宏模型、统计模型及可靠性模型的建立与仿真应用进行介绍。最后，将介绍研究团队在抗辐射SOI器件模型方面的成果与应用，并简要介绍在极端环境模型方面的进展：其中主要包括极端温度模型及辐射效应模型等。
肺部疾病（如新冠肺炎、肺癌等）是人类健康的主要威助之一发展面向肺部疾病的人工智能诊断技术对于提升人类的生存质量具有重大意义。报告人近年来与武汉大学人民医院、上海肺科医院等单位紧密合作，在新冠肺炎早筛与分型、肺癌智能诊断与预后分析等领域开展了一系列研究。在本次报告中，报告人将分享所研发的新冠肺炎智能诊断系统，肺结节检测肺结节良恶性分类、多模态肺结节良恶性分类、肺部病理切片分析、多模态肺癌预后分析等肺癌智能诊断与预后分析相关的前沿工作。
人类遗传学研究揭示了数以干计的致病蛋白，而降解这些致病蛋白可以从根本上干预或治疗这些疾病。除了蛋白质，其他物质如RNA、脂类等生物大分子也可能致病，而且很难被直接阻断。如何把向干预这些“不可成药”靶点，是生物医学领域关注的难题。报告人将通过介绍其实验室近期一些工作，特别是围绕享廷顿质致病蛋白变异HTT靶向的一些工作，讨论“不可成药”靶点的可能干预策略。
冷冻电镜不仅是结构生物学的重要利器，也是交叉学科的重要实验表征手段。讲座主要针对冷冻电镜的单颗粒技术进行原理上的讲解，并结合实例让初学者对冷冻电镜有初步的了解。
戴恒男，2010年毕业于四川大学，并于2014年获德国富克旺根艺术大学（Folkwang Universitat der Kunste）工业设计学士学位。曾在德国Tinz.DCC设计工作室担任工业设计师；2017年加入韶音科技有限公司任设计策划部总监，负责整体品牌视觉定义及创意概念设计，曾参与品牌定位、产品线规划、产品ID设计等工作。在多年的求学及工作经历中，积累了大量的设计学习及实践经验，作品曾参选博物馆展览，并拥有多项美国外观设计专利。
随着深度学习等技术的发展，计算机在图像分类、对象识别等任务中取科了接近甚至超越人类的成绩，但如何赋予人工智能具有突破固定规则的“创意”，使人工智能从“感知智能”迈向“认知智能”是计算机视觉领域的重要任务：视觉-语言相互生成技术旨在使计算机能够根据用户给定的输入进行“联想”与“创造”，能够根据图像、视频等视觉内容自动生成一段自然语言描述，实见视觉到语言生成：或者根据一段自然语言描述从无到有地自动生成语义一致、内容真实、符合逻辑的图像、视频3D图形，实现语言到视觉生成，这是人工智能实现“认知智能”的一项重要任务，在教育、设计、影视、创作等领域具有重要的应用价值。本报告将介绍我们在视觉-语言相互生成技术上的研究工作：在视觉到语言生成上，提出对象感知双向图和层次化视觉-语言对齐等方法，通过视频时空信息建模和语义一致性建模，实现准确的视频描述生成。在文本到视觉生成上，提出对称蒸馏网络等方法，将相关视觉任务中的语义知识迁移至生成任务中，提高图像与视频生成的质量。最后展示相关的演示系统。
光遗传学（Optogenetics）结合了光学和遗传学的优势，可以精确调控细胞信号通路，并且具有时空特异高、可逆性强及毒副作用小等优点。何涟博士将光敏感蛋白与钙特异性的离子通道（CRAC）结合，设计并开发了一系列的蓝光精准确调控的具有高度选择性的钙离子通道，并应用于控制钙信号相关的免疫反应及疾病治疗。除此之外，研发的十余种光依赖工具可以用来实现蛋白异位，抗原-抗体结合，程序性细胞死亡等，为信号传导的分子机制研究和调控，疾病的病理解析及治疗提供新方向。
随着越来越多的个体基因型和表型数据被测定，全基因组关联分析已经确定了许多与复杂疾病和性状有关的遗传变异。但是，关联区域往往位于编码区外，且包含众多DNA变异，很难通过解析这些自然变异的遗传效应，确定影响疾病和性状的调控元件和靶基因，从而为生物育种提供理论基础。进一步，随着对自然变异生物学功能更深刻系统的了解，下一步，我们将有机会通过人工设计调控元件和调控线路，改变生物性状，从而进入基于合成生物学的生物育种新阶段。本次讲座将针对以上内容，介绍自己的相关工作和对术来方向的展望。
在微生物组的精准表征方面，我们利用生态动力学模型定量研究微生物群落的动态响应，解析肠道微生物组个性化响应的生态机制：开发了具有单细胞分辨率的成像方法解析微生物组的空间结构：开发了新的生物信息学工具，头宏基因组数据中推断菌株水平的组成和功能。在微生物组的靶向调控方面，我们开发了基于CRISPR/Cas的肠道拟杆菌基因组编辑工具，实现基因水平的精准改造：分离培养针对人体共栖致病菌的噬菌体，进行生态水平的精准调控。这些方法将帮助我们理解微生物组的复杂性，推动宿主共生菌群的功能研究与产业应用。
随着全球对“双碳”目标的共识，“建筑发电站”的时代已经到来•这也意味着在百余年前勒•柯布西耶（LeCorousier）提出的“住宅是居住的机器”这一预言被目益强化•上迹社会新动向都对深圳大学、墨尔本皇家理工大学、泛在建筑技术深圳）联合赛队设计的“像素之家”的构思产生了重要影响•研讨会将以零能耗的“像素之家”为例从建筑设计整合的视角分享光伏新能源小住宅的设计探索，并提出技术创新需回归“日常”生活所需的朴素观点。
Carboranes are a class of polyhedral carbon-boron molecular clusters featuring three-dimensional aromaticity which are often viewed as 3-D analogs to benzene.They constitute a class of structurally unique molecules with exceptional thermal and chemical stabilities and the ability to hold various substituents. These properties have made them useful building blocks in the supramolecular design， medicine， catalysts and materials. However their unique structures make derivatization difficult resulting in the limited application scope. Thus，it is important and necessary to develop new methodologies for the selective functionalization of carboranes. In this lecture，I will discuss our strategies for the selective functionalization of o-carboranes at cage carbon or boron vertex and the applications of the resultant functionalized carboranes in catalysis， materials and medicine by giving examples.V
将白光滋光聚焦照射不同液体，可以形成不同形状的彩色干涉环，印相千彩虹”，这种现象涉及光学、热学、力学和声学等多种物理效应。激光加热改变了水里的温度分布，也就改变了各处的折射率，在局部形成了一个非球面的凹透镜，使得使不同波长的光各自发生干涉，以很大范围的角度出射。这里我们汇报最近几年工作中关手实验现象、物理模型以及数值模拟的结果，包括液体对流和激光波前曲率对相平彩虹的形状和形成过程的影响。相干彩虹的产生机制是非常普适的，在很多液体中都可以观察到这种现象。
1.Iterleukin-33 (IL-33） plays pleiotropic functions in maintaining tissue homeostasis in health and disease， by regulating group 2 innate lymphoid cells (ILC2s) regulatory T cells (Tregs）and other immune cells via its receptor， ST2. However it is unclear how IL-33 affects tumor immune microenvironment. We found that IL-33 inhibited the growth of orthotopic melanoma （B16-F10） in C57BL/6 mice and heterotopic breast cancer (4T1） in BALB/c mice. With flow cytometry scRNA-Seq and bioinformatics analysis， we demonstrated that IL-33 profoundly increased the proportions of infiltrating ILC2s， eosinophils and ST2+ Tregs in tumors. Mechanistically， IL-33 augmented the MHC-I expression by ILC2s and enhanced their capacity for antigen presentation. Lastly the inhibitory effect of IL-33 on tumor growth was partially dependent on Treg ST2 expression. These findings suggest that IL-33 inhibits tumor growth by regulating their immune microenvironment.2.Lung cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer and the leading cause of cancer-associated death worldwide. GGH CGamma-Glutamyl Hydrolase） is a lysosomal glycoprotein which affects the intracellular concentration ofpolyglutamylated folic acid by catalyzing the hydrolysis of polyglutamylated folate into transportable monoglutamate， but its oncogenic roles and underlying molecular mechanisms have not been fully studied in lung cancer. Here we found that GGH was highly expressed in tumors and significantly related to poor survival in patients with lung adenocarcinomas.Upon GGH knockdown. the cell proliferation migration and invasion were significantly decreased in lung cancer cells. Importantlyy we found that the cell autophagy was induced upon GGH silencing Mechanistically GGH regulates the autophagy may through p-AMPK-p-ULK1-BECNI signaling.In contrast of GGH， the folylpolyglutamate synthetase enzyme CFPGS） has an opposite effects on the expression of autophagy-associated proteins. Further， we observed that Cl6-ceramide was increased after GGH siRNAS treatment.In addition to those， previous study has indicated C16-ceramide can promote the autophagy in cancer cells. We speculate that GGH inhibits autophagy may through reduce folate stress and inhibit production of Cl6-ceramide， then activating p-AMPK-p-ULKI-BECNI signaling. Taken together our study suggested that GGH may not only have a prognostic markers but also play a critical role in lung cancer progression including autophagy regulation. Intervention with targeting GGH and its signaling may have translational potential for precision therapy for lung cancer.
孙汉杰先生，现任中国平安人寿保险股份有限公司总经理助理，总精算师，分管平安人寿产品中心。具有超过22年的保险行业工作经验曾任平安集团财务企划中心企划部精算室经理平安集团财务企划中心企划部副总经理；先后在产品开发、价值评估、准备金评估、企划经营等多个岗位工作过。孙汉杰先生是北美精算师正会员，也是2022年度的SOA中国委员会主席。同时，孙汉杰先生日前还担任中国银保监会人身保险业责任准备金评估利率专家咨询委员会委员。
干早、高盐、冷等不良环境等造成细胞的渗透助迫：引发生长抑制并严重影响作物的产量。细胞渗透势（膨压）变化还是植物细胞生（伸）长的动力。植物对渗透势变化的感受和响应与作物生长与抗性这两个重要农艺性状密切相关，但其详细的分子机制并不清楚。近年来，通过高精度磷酸化蛋白组学、单细胞（类群）蛋白组学等方法，以技术创新驱动科学发现，我们系统解析了高等植物RAF-SnRK2级联途径。发现受渗透助道远速透导的RAF蛋白微静是植物渗透时追感受和信号转导途径的核心组分，RAF通过磷酸化SnRK2蛋白激酶，参与了渗透胁迫和ABA对于气孔关闭、基因表达等胁迫应答过程的调节等。我们正在解析RAF蛋白激酶的上游信号途径，解析植物如何感受和应答渗透胁迫、调控植物生长的分子机制，并期望打破植物生长发育与胁迫应答的平衡，提高植（作）物对环境胁迫的适应能力。
Nutrients and energy have emerged as central modulators of developmental programs in plants and animals.The evolutionarily consened target of rapamycin (TOR）kinase is a master integrator of nutrient and energy signalling that controls growth. Despite its key regulatory roles in translation proliferation，metabolism，and autophagylittleis known about how TOR shapes developmental transitions and differentiation We show that glucose-activated TOR kinase controls genome wide histone H3 trimethylation at K27（H3K27me3） Arabidopsis thaliana，which regulates cell fate and development. We identify FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT ENDOSPERM （FIE）anindispensable component of Polycomb repressive complex 2 （PRC2），which catalyzes H3K27me3，asaTOR target，Direct phosphorylation by TOR promotes the dynamic translocation ofFIE from the cytoplasm to the nucleus.Mutation of the phosphorylation site on FIE abrogates the global H3K27me3 landscape， reprograms the transcriptome and disrupts organogenesis in plants，Moreover，glucose-TOR-FIE-PRC2 signalling modulates vernalization-induced floral transition. We propose that this signalling axis servesasa nutritional checkpoint leading to epigenetic silencing of key transcription factor genes that specify stem cell destiny in shoot and root meristems and control leaf，flower and silique patterning， branching， and vegetative-to-reproduction transition. Our findings reveal a fundamental mechanism of nutrient signaling in direct epigenome reprogramming， with broad relevance for the developmental control of multicellular organisms.
光和物质相互作用是支配当代社会信息、能源、环境、医学、国防军事等领域诸多科学技术的重要物理过程。在微纳尺度泳入研究光和物质相互作用物理以及光场传输、电磁场演化的精细规律，探索微纳尺度和原子水平上电磁场演化行为是否精确地满足传统连续介质麦克斯书方程组，如果不是，能否构建更加精确的理论体系，对于电磁学、光学、电动力学，乃至整个物理学都有重大的基础价值。另外，构建宏观、介观与微观相协调、经典与量子相统一的光和物质相互作用理论体系和计算方法，有望为解决单分子检测、传感、识别和成像，纳米及原子尺度显微成像等重大应用问题提供解决方案。本报告将介绍团队近年在三个前沿基础科学问题上的研究进展，包括等离激元增强的拉受散射统一理论的建筑，等离激元纳腔-分子强耦合体系光谱裂背后物理机制的探讨，以及沟通微观和宏观光学的原子水平电磁场理论的构建等，重点探究如何综合运用纳米光子学的基本概念、方法和技术等，寻找解决基础科学若干重大问题的方案。
Understanding quanturm noise is a major challenge for scaling up guantum computing systems . Despite recent developments of quantum benchmarking methods that characterize noisy quantum gates. the fundamental question of what information about noise is self-consistently learnable has been unclear even for a single CNOT gate. Here，we give a precise characterization about the learnability or Pauli noise associated with Clifford gates using graph theoretical tools，Showing the learnable information corresponds exactly to the cycle space of the pattern transfer graph of the gate set. We experimentally demonstrate Pauli noise characterization of IBM's CNOT gate，where we learn all 14 learhable degrees of freedom and bound the 2 unlearnable degrees of freedom using physical constraints: We also discuss information-theoretical lower baunds on the sample complexity of Pauli noise estimation and the possibility of using ancilla-assisted schemes to overcome these barriers.
王立新，现任广东省水利厅党组书记、厅长，曾任深圳市副市长。清华大学工学博士，在水利、环保、城市规划方面有较深造，曾长期从事政府科技、工业、贸易、社会管理等领域工作。
内存破坏漏洞是应用和系统软件中最常见的漏洞类型之一，攻击者围绕着该种漏洞所发动的一系列内存破坏攻击，给计算机系统带来了巨大的安全威助。攻击者不仅可以利用内存破坏攻击泄露目标系统的私密数据，还可以算改敏感数据实现控制流动持、内核提权等效果，进而获得自标系统的控制权。隔离保护这些私密和敏感的关键数据是阻断这类攻击的一个有效手段。由于更小的可信计算基和更低的性能损失，部署软硬协同的隔离机制是目前主流的技术路线—研究人员采用X86处理器提供的VMFUNC、MPK和MPX等硬件特性实现一系列应用场景的数据保护。然而，我们的研究发现，有些关键数据的访问通常是极其频繁的，现有软硬协同隔离机制在保护这些数据时会引入非常大的性能开销。为此，我们通过巧用和改造其他硬件特性（例如，SMAP和CET），实现更加高效的内存隔离。
We will discuss some recent results on the fractal geometry of the Markov and Lagrange spectra，which are classical objects from the theory of Diophantine approximations，and their set difference. In particular，we discuss recent results in collaboration with Erazo，Gutierrez-Romoand Romafa，which give precise asymptotic estimates for the fractal dimensions of the Markov and Lagrange spectra near3（their smaller accumulation point）and other recent collaborations with Jeffreys，Matheus，Pollicott and Vytnova，in which we prove that the Hausdorff dimension of the complement ofthe Lagrange spectrum in the Markov spectrum has Hausdorff dimension between0.594179and0.796445 We will relate these results to symbolic dynamics，continued fractions and to the study of the fractal geometry of arithmetic sums of regular Cantor sets，a subject also important for the study of homoclinic bifurcations in Dynamical Systems.
造血干细胞发育异常会导致多种血液病，如骨髓衰竭和白血病等，严重威助人类健康。细胞因子信号通路和蛋白质内稳态（proteostasis）是维持造血干细胞数量和再生功能的两个重要因素。吕考升博士综合运用分子细胞生物学、干细胞生物学和血液病学技术并结合小鼠骨髓移植和体外干细胞培养等方法，揭示了蛋白质泛素化和棕榈酰化修饰调控细胞因子信号通路的新机制并为慢性粒细胞白血病（CMML）和急性系白血病（AML）的临床治疗提供了新方案。此外，闸明了蛋白质泛素化调控核糖体组装和蛋白质翻译的新途径，发现了治疗Shwachman-Diamondsyndrome亚型骨髓衰竭综合征的新靶点。
In the past several decades，internationalisation，which is featured by people and ideas' unparalleled transnational mobility. has become a key discourse in higher education. Despite the spectacular outcomes that higher education internationalisation has achieved ， scholars have detected weaknesses and vulnerabiities in its current policy and practice，which the COVID-19 pandemic have intensified. This presentation provides a critical reflection on the field’s evo  lution and the prospects for its future， highlighting the urgent demand for concept and practice's innovation on university internationalisation at the regional，national，and institutional levets in response to the changing global field in the post-pandemic era.在过去的几十年里，以人员和思想跨国流动为特证的国际化，已经成为高等教育领域的一个重要议题。尽管高等教育国际化取得了令人喝目的成果，但学者们发现目前的国际化政和实践仍存在一些弱点和漏洞，而COVID-19的大流行加剧了这鉴弱点。新冠疫情在世界国内的流行便得全球政治、经济及文化环境发生阶段性的改变，高校若继获其国际化发展就必须对新环境做出回应与改变。该报告以西蒙马金森所提出的全球高等教育场域理论为意架，对现有文献进行了系统性和批判性的梳理，井结合对来自世界不同地区的20位高等教育国际化领域的知名资深学者的深度访谈，建构高等教育国际化这一概念的内通，并对其的高变发展和未来前最进行了批判性的反思。该报告分析了新冠疫情所导致的全球形势变化，展现了后疫情时期不同地区高等教育国际化所呈现出的新超势及重要议题。该报告同时强了在区域、国家和机构层面对高等教育国际化概念和实践创新的追切需求，并为高等教育国际化的持续发展和繁荣提供了有洞见性及可行性的战略意见。
目前的大数据处理主要都围绕大数据的volume和vclocity这两个挑战，对于variety挑战的研究相对较少。通用的数据处理技术因其广泛的适用性和相对低的平均开发维护成本，一直受到商业数据库管理系统的青睐。大数据泛构（big data genhierarchy）把数据抽象成度量空间中的点，仅利用数据间距离的三角不等性进行数据的管理和挖掘等工作，具有高度的通用性，有望成为下一代通用数据处理系统的重要组件。
人类疾病的发生发展与蛋白质表达和功能的异常密切相关，而蛋白的表达和功能受基因表达、翻译后修饰等多重因素的调控。因而，单维度的基因组学、转录组学、蛋白质组学很难全面解析疾病的发病机制及关键靴标。基于此，曹丽伟综合利用包括蛋白组、磷酸蛋白组、糖基化蛋白组、基因组、转录组的蛋白基因组学来分析膜腺痘临床样本，解析了膜腺痘的痘症生物学，并促进鉴定到潜在膜腺癌早期诊断标及治疗記点。此外，为了鉴定高度糖基化的文滋病表面膜蛋日的糖基化状态，曹丽伟百次建立了基于EndoH和PNGaseF的连续酶切法，该方法能够全面鉴定艾滋病包膜糖蛋白的糖基化状态，为艾滋病疫苗生产提供标准糖基化图谱。
氮化铁（GaN）是最重要的宽禁带半导体之，已经广泛地应用在短波长发光二极管和激光器上也将是下一代高频、高功率和高温电子器件的关键半导体材料。由于具有很高的迁移率、饱和速度和二维电子气密度，AIGaN/GaN异质结构被认为是发展高性能电力电子器件、微波毫米波器件和单片电路的理想材料。本报告将对宽禁带半导体以及本团队在氮化镍电子器件的研究活动和成果作简要介绍。本报告首先针对正在兴起的微波无线电力传输技术的低功率微波整流电路，设计和制造了准垂直结构的GaN肖特基二极管。采用重参杂外延层和图形化的肖特基阳极，降低了GaNSBD的串联电阻。对于反向击穿电压50V的器件，开启电阻为1.459，结电容为0.87pF。设计并测试了微波整流电路。源于优秀的二极管器件性能和微波电路设计，在工作频率905MHz和输入功率23dBm的条件下，转换效率达到92%。在2.45GHz和输入功率25dBm的条件下，转换效率达到91%。在905MHz工作频率下，完成了传输距离3米的实验，发射和接收功率分别为39dBm和12.5dBm。另外，本报告也将对GaN射频场效应晶体管和GaN功率开关器件的研究做介绍。
Quantum phase estimation is a crucial component in quantum algorithms which are believed to achieve an exponential speedup over their classical counterparts for solving problems，such as integer factorization，the Hamiltonian spectrum. However， the conventional phase estimation algorithm which is based on ihe quantum Fourier transfoFm， reguites ancillary qubits to perform the controlled unitary operators and quantum error correction to combat noise.These requirements surpass the capability of the current noisy intermediate-scale quantum(NISQ) dlevices.The control-free phase estimation is an appealing variant in the NISQ era，where the unitary of interest is repeatedly applied instead of its control version.in this work，we develop an error mitigation method for the control-free phase estimation.We prove a theorem that under the first-order correction， the noise channels with only Hermitian Kraus operators do not ohange the phases of a unitary operator，and therefore，the benign types of noise for phase estimation are identified. By using the randomized compiling protocol，we can convert the genericnoise in the phase estimation circuits into stochastic Pauli noise，which setisfies the condlition of our theorem:Thus we achieve a noise-resilient phase estimation without any guantum resource overhead.The simulated experimenis show that our method.can significahtly reduce the estimation error of ihe phases by up to twvo orders.of magnitude.Our method paves the way for the utilization of quantum phase estimation before the advent or fault-tolerant guantum computers.
随着传感器、人工智能理论和技术的飞速发展，机器人的灵巧操作已得到国内外高度关注，它在精密制造、科学实验、助老助残与医疗服务等重要领域都有追切需求，被Science评为机器人领域最具挑战问题之一。2018年我国科技日报将机器人灵巧操作中的“触觉传感器”和“机器人核心算法”重要两个方面纳入了“卡脖子技术”，因此机器人灵巧操作技术也被我国列入新一代人工智能国家发展战略的重要内容。报告围绕机器人灵巧操作的“触觉感知与交互学习”展开，首先闸述了机器人灵巧操作的发展和背景，接着详细介绍了操作触觉感知的研究工作，然后介绍了人机自然交互操作的方法，进一步针对开发的新型灵巧未端闻述了机器人抓取操作学习方法，最后总结展望了机器人灵巧操作的发展趋势。
1.Osteoporosis (OP)，a disease that weakens bones， affects more than 200 million people around the world， and above 70% ofpatients are over 65 years old. PTHis an approved drug of severe OP to stimulate bone formation. However elderly patients do not respond to PTH treatment as well as young ones.The mechanism that leads to this difference is still unknown.In this study，we found that Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-a）， an up-regulated potent cytokine inelderly OP patients， can suppress PTH induced cAMP production and CREB phosphorylation in osteocytes in vitro. In addition. the global TNFRI and TNFR2 knockout （dKO） mice Sshowed a higher bone volume CBV） and bone mineral density (BMD） compared to their wild-type littermates after intermittent PTH administration. suggesting that PTH-driven bone formation could be inhibited by upregulated TNF-a signaling pathway. Furthermore， we found that TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2），an important molecule downstream of TNF-a signaling，interacts with and promotes Gas ubiguitination.resulting in restraining PTH induction of CREB phosphorylation. Taken together our results suggest that through a TRAF2-dependent manner the TNF-a signaling pathway could be an important potential target for improving the effectiveness ofPTH treatment in elderly OP patients.2.Genetic alterations of cancer cells can shape the tumor-promoting microenvironment.Kriippel-like factor 5 （KLF5）， located at the second most frequently deleted chromosomal region of human prostate cancer CPCa）， has been reported to modulate tumor progression and the secretion of inflammatory cytokines. However the role of KLFS in PCa microenvironment is unclear. Here， we demonstrate that KLF5 plays a crucial role in reprogramming PCa microenvironment by modulating tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs）. In Pten-null mouse prostates， KIf5 knockout significantly increases the infiltration of TAMs. KIf5 deletion upregulates multiple factors associated with TAMs recruitment and polarization. Including MIF， Sppl， CXCL1， and CCL2.CD74， the receptor of MIF，is associated with macrophageinfiltration in PCa. Consistently， MIF is negatively correlated with KLF5 expression both in mRNA and protein level. ISO-l，an inhibitor of MIF，inhibits macrophage accumulation and decreased the ratio of CD206* M2 macrophage in total macrophage in K7/5-loss tumors.Suppression of TAMs accumulation by PLX3397， an inhibitor of CSFIRy and ISO-1 relieved K1f5 deficiency-induced prostate tumor growth and angiogenesis respectively.This study unveils a novel KLF5-dependent mechanism in M2 macrophage infiltration in the microenvironment of PCa， providing implications for the development of novel prognostic and mmunologicallytherapeutic targets.
Human ATP-binding cassette (ABC)subfamily A(ABCA）transporters mediate the transport of various lipid compounds across the membrane. Mutations in human ABCA transporters have been described to cause severe hereditary disorders associated with impaired lipid transport. Here，we present three cryO-EM structures of human ABCA4，aretina-specific lipid importer，and two cryO-EM structures of human ABCA3，a lung-specific lipid exporter，in distinct functional states atresolutions of 3.3-3.4 A.In the nucleotide-free state，the two transmembrane domains（TMDs） of ABCA4 and ABCA3 exhibit alateral-opening'conformation，allowing the lateral entry of substrate from both leaflets of the lipid bilayer.In the ATP-bound state，the two TMDS of ABCA4 and ABCA3 display a closed conformation， which precludes substrate binding， Our results help rationalize the disease-causing mutations in human ABCA4 and ABCA3 and suggest a conserved  ' lateral access and extrusion' mechanism for both lipid export and import mediated by ABCA transporters.
The ongoing revolution of cryo-EM has enabled novel approaches for obtaining deep insights into highly dynamic protein machines. Through our cryo-EM studies of several ABC transporters that perform different functions，we have uncovered how distinct tasks of substrate translocation are accomplished by the unique actions of these transporters Importantly，our own research experience in the past decade is an excellent demonstration of how cryo-EM methodology and the mechanistic study of ABC transporters stimulate each other's development，thus emphasizing the extremely versatile nature and yet-to-be-realizedpotentialof cryo-EM in biological research.
Artificial Neural Networks have been witnessed with an accelerated growth in recent years enabling large-scale integration of clouds for a higher throughput. The co-design of both electronic circuits and the novel Neuromorphic architecture based on Asynchronous Cellular Automata for the formation and real-time re-wiring of a wide range of Spiking & Convolutional Neural Networks draws more and more attention to achieve a user-friendly AGI hardware platform with libraries of learning algorithms. In this talk， we focus on the SEASONN Neuromorphic circuit design， starting from special demands raised by novel collaborative robotsor Cobots. Design challenges in both the system-level and circuit-level will be discussed. Some recent works will be reviewed. including our implementation of our Async Cellular Automata NNarchitecture in the Netomaton collective computing framework， MyHDL synthesis tool， and avariety of target technologies considered such as 3D photonics， 3D graphene+silicene device， &other nanotechnologies.
Quantum states of light opens up a new avenue for spectroscopy by utilizing the parameters，i.e，entanglement， squeezing and photon statistics. Imaging and controlling the electron and vibrational dynamics of molecules can be achieved， towards unprecedented resolution and precision， not accessible by classical laser pulses. An overview of our recent work on quantum-light spectroscopic probes of ultrafast electron dynamics will be presented， including multidimensional coherent probe， photon-coincidence counting and Raman spectra. Microscopic models for quantum dynamics will be further discussed. 
在信息时代，密码学是保障信息安全的核心技术和基础支撑。隐私计算在数字经济中至关重要，是保护隐私条件下实现数据价值的关键技术。在本次报告中，我们将介绍密码学的历史，以及相关前沿研究，概述与隐私计算相关的密码学技术。
长期从事心血疾病的发病机制和治疗韶点研究，综合利用全基因关联研究（GWAS）、高通量测序、动物模型等方法，系统研究了血管功能异常的发生机理并探索了新的药物韶点。闸明了TFEB、TM6SF2、TCF7L2等基因参与心血管疾病的作用机理。近五年在Circulation，Am JHum Genet，iScience Ebiomedicine，SciSignal等期刊发表论文。
With the advance in sensors ，data become ubiguitous. To make sense of the data we have to solve higher and higher dimensional problems that would seem intractable to solve. However many high-dimensional probfems have solutions that live in low-dimensional spaces. Sparsity is a way to exploit the low-dimensional structure of solutions to obtain feasible solution methods for high-dimensional problems. Here in this talk，l will introduce regularization methods that enforce sparsity in solutions and their applications to several image reconstruction oroblems including single-molecule localization microscopy ground-based astronomy.
周守为，博士学位，2009年当选中国工程院院士。曾任第九届中国科学技术协会副主席，现任中国工程院能源与矿业工程学部主任，油气藏地质及开发工程国家重点实验室主任，我国著名海洋石油开发工程专家，40余年的工作生中一直奋战在海洋石油生产科研第一线，为我国海洋石油工业的发展做出了重大贡献。在海上稠油油田开发、优快钻完井、边际油田开发及FPSO全海式油田开发等技术领域建树良多，提出的海上油田开发新模式和新理论，使我国海上稠油开发技术整体达到国际先进水平。他提出并实施我国深海战略，为海洋石油981平台建设、南海岛碱建设、中国海上油气上产5000万吨等作出了重大贡献。目前主持的天然气水合物世界前沿开发技术研究，在国际上首次提出水合物“固态流化”开采新技术并于2017年在中国南海神狐海域成功实施试采。周守为院士及其科研团队曾获国家科技进步特等奖一项，一等奖1项，获国家科技进步二等奖5项、发表专著5部，发表论文30余篇。
瑞典皇家学院将以“TheInevitableTransitiontotheElectricSociety”为主题举办系列研讨会。其中，在9月7日举办的，主题为“Energyeficiency”的研讨会将由我校讲席教授，纳米科学与应用研究院院长LarsSamuelson院土主持开幕开致辞作为大部分能源和技术升级的共同主题，电力是能源生产、能源储存，分配等各项议题的基础。研讨会旨在讨论各种可用于构建未来能源系统的技术。并将从国际视野出发，涉及技术、经济、环境和社会科学等方面多个方面。南方科技大学纳米科学与应用研究院，联合能量转换与存储技术教育部重点实验室本着促进中国与欧洲间在能源学术领域的交流合作，特邀请校内相关研究领域的学者参加。
人类基因组测序完成后，出人意料地发现编码基因的数目远小于预估，说明在RNA水平上存在多样的调控机理来提高基因组的复杂度。这种复杂度的扩展主要通过RNA可变剪接实现：超过90%的基因都有一种以上的剪接亚型，从而翻译成不同的蛋白质亚型。剪接的调控与包括癌症在内的多种人类疾病密切相关，因此对癌症中剪接异变的研究有重要的意义。近期还发现mRNA的翻译也有着复杂的调控过程，其中很多环形RNA可以通过非经典翻译过程来指导蛋白合成，因此成为扩展蛋白组复杂性的一个新机理。同时，利用RNA层面的基础知识，来研发新型的核酸或蛋白药物，使得在RNA层面对基因组进行操控成为可能。我讲对实验室近年来在RNA领域的工作，包括RNA剪接调控，翻译调控，以及利用合成生物学方法对RNA的特异性操控这三方面，做一个简单介绍。
In this talk，I privide two recent proposals for achieving quantum enhanced sensitivity in many-body probes.While the first proposal exploits the feature of the ground state for sensing.the second approach relies on the non-equilibrium dynamics.Second order quantum phase transitions，with well-known features such as long-rang entanglement， symmetry breaking，and gap closing，exhibit quantum enhancement for sensing at criticality. However， it is unclear which of these features are responsible for this onhancement. To address this issue， we investigate phase transitions in free-formionic topological systems that exhibit neither symmetry-breaking nor long-range. We using topological edge states near the phase boundary. Remarkably ，such accessible in solid state experiments. We illustrate the results with ID Su-Schrieffer-Heeger chain and a 2D Chern insulator which are both experimentally accessible. While neither symmetry-breaking nor long-range entanglement are essential， gap closing remains as the major candidate for the ultimate source of quantum enhanced sensing. In addition， we show that the dynamics of a many-body system can also be this method， one can use sequential measurements on a single qubit of a many-body probe with intervals of free evolution. We show that by increasing the length of the sequence one can enhance the precision well-beyond the standard limit accessible to classical sensors.
With the advance in sensors，data become ubiquitous.To make sense of the data we have to solve higher and higher dimensional problems that would seem intractable to solve.However，many high-dimensional problems have solutions that live in low-dimensional spaces.Sparsity is a way to exploit the low-dimensional structure of solutions to obtain feasible solution methods for high-dimensional problems.Here in this talk，l will introduce regularization methods that enforce sparsity in solutions and their applications to several image reconstruction problems including single-molecule localization microscopy and ground-based astronomy.
黏性土固结沉降是工程设施建设中尤为关键的问题之一。海洋黏性土具有多样的物源成分和复杂的构造历史，其在复杂工程荷载作用下常常表现出缓慢的固结变形和长期流变性，采用合适的方法科学预测和分析海洋黏性土的沉降对于保证工程设施安全尤为重要。本报告回顾了固结沉降计算方法的历史进程，指出了宏观沉降中存在两种不同机理的变形特征，分析了理论研究与工程应用中存在的差异，提出一种新的可以考虑复杂工程荷载、土层条件和排水板加固的通用计算方法，并从室内试验与现场数据进行了验证分析。该方法是报告人自博士阶段三十余年一直致力思考、发展与推广的研究内容，具有重要的工程应用价值。
祝京旭院士，1977年考入清华大学化工系，1982年毕业后留校任教两年。在1988年获加拿大UBC大学化工博士学位，曾任荷兰壳牌公司研究员，现任加拿大西安大略大学杰出教授，加拿大皇家学院、工程院两院院士。是世界著名化学反应工程专家，在颗粒学领域的科研成就为国际化工界所公认，在其数个分支领域居世界领先地位。发表文章500余篇，获专利50多项，其中环保型微纳米颗粒喷涂技术平台、干法制药及包衣技术平合、高效颗粒流化床污水处理技术平合等，已应用到实际工业过程中。培养硕博研究生200余名、博土后60余名，包括20余名教授、10余位国内外创业者。曾荣获国内杰出青年、长江学者讲座教授；获得加拿大化工学会终身最高成就奖、加拿大职业工程师协会勋章、美国化工协会颗粒学最高成就奖、加拿大安省总理优秀科研奖、加拿大华人杰出成就奖等多项顶级奖项，并被载人加拿大名人录。2009年发起建立全球华人化工学者学会并任会长，现已成功举行14届年会，积极促进了全球华人学当间的广泛交流。
Landau's Femmi iquid theory is the foundation of modern condensed matter physics.It is surprisingly successful in describing the low-energy properties most of metals.Yet ，there are few that exceed this paradigm exhibiting non-Fermi liquid behaviors.The fermionic quasiparticle js unstabble against long-ranged interaction mediated gauge fields or gapless bosons.The studies on non-Fermi liquids havea long.distinguished history whereas researchers mosty focuson acountable number ofgapless bosons.In this taik. will first review some of the wellestablished theories of non-Femmi liquids.tnen.considera novelmechanism for the fomation ofNFLS the bosons simultaneously become criticalona continuous manifold whichis dubbed criicel boson surface.The fermions on the Femi surface are strongly scattered by ihe critical boson surface which renders the Fermi liquid picture breaks down.This constitutes a physical scenario of'infinity scatters ininity”，which is analyzed by complementary theoretical frameworks.
演讲综述了碳纳米复合材料的研发历程和挑战，特别是结合碳纳米管的发现、可控制备和优异特性，提出了界面性质的定量化表征方法、构筑多级次结构、实现结构功能一体化等推动高性能碳纳米复合材料发展和应用的核心科学问题。并介绍了纳米材料界面力学高通量实验与统计分析新方法，实现了石墨烯界面剪切强度的精确测量；提出了应变传递因子设计准则，构筑多级次结构界面，应变传递效率接近理论极限；同时闻明了材料和微结构协同吸波机理，工程化制备的吸波材料面比吸收效能等超越国际同类产品，极端环境服役的超黑材料应用于我国空间卫星。
二维（2D）材料家族包涵了多种类型的层状材料，它的层状薄膜可以具有原子级的厚度，以及独特奇异的电学、光学以及其他特性。在过去十多年里，人们在二维材料和器件方面取得了多项重要进展，这为其从可见光到红外以及太赫兹（THz）波段范围内的光电应用提供了广阔的前景。在本次报告中，我将首先简要回顾二维材料中光与物质相互作用的若干进展，特别是若干极化激元。尔后我将重点讨论与光电子相关的几个主题。为了获得由通常大约几纳米有限长度的光与物质相互作用构建的高性能器件，我们尝试了光电器件的新设计和制备方法，实现了从可见光到红外传感和太赫兹光波段的调制。我将通过几个示例展示石墨烯、二硫化钥和二确化鸽，及其相关异质结构和/或混合架构方面的研究进展。最后将展望二维材料在柔性光电子器件方面的发展前景。
柔性可穿戴电子由于其可拉伸、弯曲、轻便等特点被广泛应用于人体信号监测、运动传感、康复医疗等领域。天线作为无线通信的重要部件，可与柔性电子集成在一起，实现设备的轻便化、无感化及智能化。由于柔性天线的衬底材料很薄，在使用过程中易断裂破损，造成设备的损坏。研发高强韧自愈合聚合物能有效解决柔性天线力学强度不足的问题，大幅度延长其使用寿命。离子聚合物因其高效的室温自发愈合性能而最具应用前景。在本报告中，将介绍高强韧自愈合离子聚合物的设计思路及其在柔性天线方面的潜在应用。

Intelligent Reflecting Surface （IRS）is adigitally controlled metasurface that can be densely deployed in wireless networks to reconfigure the propagation channels among wireless nodes by dynamically tuning the signal reflection.IRS is able to not only significantly improve the networkspectral and energy eficiency for communications，but also greatly enhance the performance forother emerging applications such as wireless power transfer，sensing and localization，etc. The existing research on IRS has mainly considered wireless systems with single-lRS-reflections atthelink level，which does not reveal the full potential of IRS forfuture wireless networks.In this talk，we will focus on the main design challenges in efficiently integrating IRS to wireless networks，including IRS reflection optimization，channel acquisition and optimal deployment，withan emphasis on double-/multi-iRS-reflections.Furthermore，we will present emerging new architectures of IRS and their advantages for future applications.We will conclude the talk bydiscussing research directions worthy of further investigation in the future.
Entanglement detection isessentialin quantum inforimation science and guantium many-body physics. li has been proved that entanglement exists almost surely fora random gurantum state，while the realizations of effective entanglement criteria usually consume exponential resources，and efficient criteria often perform poorly without prior knowledge.This fact implies afundamenial limitation might exdist in the deiectabfiity of enianglement:In thiswork，we formalize ihis limitation asa fiuindamental tirade-off between the efficiency and effeotiveness of enianglement criteria via a systematic method totheoretically evaluate the detection capability of entanglement criteria.For asystem couoled to an environmentwe prove that any entanglement criterion needs exponentially. many observables to detect the entanglement effectively when restricted tosingle-copy operations.Otherwise，the detection capability ofthe criterion will decay double-exponentially. Furthermore，if multi-copy joint measurements are allowed，the effectiveness of entanglement detection can be exponentially improved，which implies a quantum advantage in entanglement detection problems.
地球环境与生命过程协同演化是地球生物学的主要研究内容，而矿物-微生物相互作用与共演化是其中的核心。矿物为微生物提供能量与物质，而微生物通过代谢活性，溶解、转化与生成新的矿物，在地质记录中留下特征纪录。矿物-微生物相互作用是微观机理与宏观效应的完美体现，关键地质时期地球环境变化与大型矿床的形成往往与矿物-微生物相互作用与共同演化相关。在现代环境，矿物-微生物相互作用在环境保护、资源能源利用、有机肥料制备、新型药物开发等诸多邻域有着巨大的潜在应用前景。
3-D printing is one of the most important technological innovations in the past few decades. Amongthe various techniques，two-photon polymerization（TPP) is the most precise 3-D printing process that has been used to create many complex structures for advanced photonic andnanoscale applicationse.gmicrorobots，metamaterials，photoniccrystals，and bio-scaffolds etc.However todate the technology still remains a laboratorytool due to its high operation costand limited fabrication rate.In this seminar Iwill present our recent works on theparallelization of the TPP process based on (1）temporal focusing and （2)binaryholography where programmable femtosecond light sheets and tens tohundreds of shaped laser beams are used to substantially improve the ratewithout sacrificingresolution.In addition，the engineered laser foci can improvethe strength and structural integrity of theprinted structures.Our experiments demonstrate arbitrarily complex structures can be fabricated at a record-breaking resolution and speed.i.e，lateral/axialresolution:140nm/175nmat10s mm3/min which is 3-4 orders of magnitude higher than any existingnanofabrication methods.Our new rmethods provide an effective and low-costsolution to scale-up the fabrication of functionalmicro-and nano-structures（~$1.5/mm3）.This means our technologymayplay alarge role in fields such ashealthcare，clean energyand watercomputing，and telecommunications.
As dictated by Newton's firstand third law of motion novement of objects result from unbalanced force and when two bodies interact，they apply forcesto one another that areequalin magnitude and opposite in direction.The same rules apply to physical connections between epithelial cels bicelular junctions and tricellular junctions where woor three cells meet.Thesetwo modular forms of cell-cell connections are proposed to mediate cellular reactions to mechanical force.Single molecule pullers and bioengineering devices revealed mechano-properties of many molecules in vitro or in culture cells.Howeverthe biological context of these mechanosensitive events and their contnbution to biological tunctionsinvivoremain largely unexplored.In our lab，we aim to bridge the gapbetween mechano-and biology by developing ension-sensorsand tension-modulators that canbe directly applied in living embryos，and eventually understand how mechanical force is utilized asa biologically relevant signal to regulate cell movements，fate and adhesion.Bone regeneration is a complex process involving numerous types of cells.The mechanical Environment has a signiticantimpactonbone formation by acting directly on skeletal stem cells osteogenic progenitors，and mature osteoblasts，and indirectly on thebloodvessel network.Recent advances in deep tissue microscopy have enabled he observation of single cells that spans up to hundreds of micrometers in the skeletal system. We improved this methodology to study the multitude of cells involved in bone regeneration.MSC ransplantation as a therapeutic has great potential  n improving bone regeneration.Howeverthe spatiotemporal progression in terms of cell fates and cell-cell interactions still need to be elucidated. In ihis studywe hypothesized that in addition to osteogenic differentiation，a portion of transplanted MSCs retain stem-like phenotype.and promote bone regeneration by recruiting and regulating multiple cell types that are essential for bone regeneration.
The domestic semiconductor industry has been in full swing in recent years， supported by national policies a large influx of capital ， and a lots of design companies have sprung up， including the overwhelming publicity of major media. What happened to the semiconductor industry？ What impact does the current industrial environment have on the employment of graduates. what aspects should we consider when choosing a career and what should we pay attention to on the road of engineers？ This talk hopes to outline the current state of the semiconductor industry from several key events. and give you some reference based on my growth experience.
OTFS has drawn great interest in the past five years， as a modulation method that is robust to temporal channel variations， as well as allows efficient implement of various MIMO schemes.One interpretation of OTFS is as modulation in the delay-Doppler-angle domain.This naturally raises the question about available measurement results and models for propagation channels in this multi-dimensional space. Consequently， this talk will start out with a review of the fundamentals of OTFS， in particular its interpretation as modulating the delay-Doppler domain， followed by a discussion of channel sounding techniques and measurement results for delay-Doppler-angle channels. Discussions about the capability of OTFS to effectively estimate those channels will wrap up this talk.
Silicon-based devices have served the semiconductor industry for more than 60 years. The device performances are approaching the fundamental material limits. Now is the time to reshape the topic of electronic devices using more advanced semiconductors. Wide bandgap semiconductors， such as gallium nitride (GaN) and silicon carbide (SiC)， have higher electron velocity， higher breakdown electric field strength， and higher operating temperature limit， all of which make them promising candidates in the upcoming era of greener electronics. In the past 20 years， GaN has shown excellent performances in solid-state lighting， RF and power devices.Since 2013， both governments and industry have invested heavily in vertical GaN techniques， making new device architectures and processes available. Most notably， GaN avalanche devices are being developed， which show great potential in power switches and single- photon detectors. In this talk， I will review my research work on impact ionization and avalanche in GaN devices for power， photonics， and RF applications.
 Large classes of the general-purpose optimisation algorithms at the heart of modern artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies are inspired by models of Darwinian evolution. In this talk we show how the foundational computational complexity analysis of such algorithms leads to an understanding of their behaviour and performance. Such understanding in turn allows informed decisions on how to set the many parameters and how to improve the algorithms to allow for the obtainment of better solutions in shorter time. We provide three concrete examples of how such analyses can lead to counter intuitive insights into how to design sexual evolution inspired algorithms (using populations and recombination) and how to set their parameters such that they can considerably outperform their single trajectory and mutation only (asexual) counterparts at 1) hillclimbing unimodal functions， at 2) escaping local optima， and at 3) general global optimisation of multimodal functions. For such performance to be achieved the required algorithmic setups are considerably different from those traditionally recommended， and sometimes particularly surprising， hence unlikely to be tested in empirical analyses. We conclude the talk by presenting experimental results that confirm the superiority of the designed algorithms that was proven for benchmark functions with significant structures， for classical combinatorial optimisation problems with practical applications.
CCUS(碳捕集、利用与封存)被认为是最具潜力、最具实效的碳减排技术。陈教授将主要介绍CCUS技术现状、进展、挑战、前景及世界典型案例等。他将结合目前中国新能源发展的政策背景，展望利用二氧化碳开发深层油气藏地热、煤制氢以及油气资源提高CCUS经济效益，列举新时代能源发展中CCUS技术数个前沿学术课题，着重介绍CCUS技术实现途径和应用前景.
发展可持续高比能碱金属电池体系不仅能够满足碱金属电池能量密度提升的迫切要求，而且有效避免废旧电池带来的环境污染，  同时再望建立关键金属材料在电池储能领域内的 闭环循环利用。近年来 ， 我们重点围绕着碱金属电池材料的合理设计、可控构筑、性能评 估、失效分析、回收再生等方面开展系列研究工作。我们将从电极材料界面调控、电池结 构精简设计等角度分别介绍碘氧化还原介质实现死锂激活， 碱金属负极自溶解辅助正极材料精准分离回收、无氟导电多功能粘结剂等方面的研究进展 ，并对未来该方向的发展提出展望。

As dictated by Newton's first and third law of motion，movement of objects result from unbalanced force， and when two bodies interact， they apply forces to one another that are equal in magnitude and opposite in direction. /Bone regeneration is a complex process involving numerous types of cells. The mechanical environment has a significant impact on bone formation by acting directly on skeletal stem cells， osteogenic progenitors， and mature osteoblasts，and indirectly on the blood vessel network. 
Medium-voltage (1-10 kV) power devices are ubiquitously used in electric vehicles， power grids， and renewable energy processing. The market size of medium-voltage power devices has exceeded $10 billion. 
We develop a protocol for continuous operation of a quantum error correcting code for protection of coherent evolution due to an encoded Hamiltonian against environmental errors， using the three-qubit bit-flip code and bit-flip errors as a canonical example.
报告着重讨论了地球生物学作为一个新型交叉学科在地球科学领域所处的地位，分别从地球生物学的涵义、地球生物学与其他学科的关系、国际地球生物学的发展状况、我国地球生物学的发展状况等四个方面进行介绍和阐述。
Intelligent electronic systems with low profile， low latency， and low power consumption are unprecedentedly required in either military deployments or commercial products， which leads current and future wireless communication applications advancing towards deep fusions of multitudinous demands and diverse standards.
Increases in carrier frequencies and bandwidths， driven by high-rate communication applications have led to vastly improved capabilities for user positioning. /By exploiting illuminators of opportunity typically selected among the available radio transmitters for broadcast services or networking， passive radar can be regarded as a pioneering form of ISAC where the sensing functionality is totally subject to the design of the communications system and cannot rely on any cooperation. 
本次讲座将为同学们介绍华为如何在手机摄影上系统性地构建竞争力和品牌影响力。
设计是什么？工业设计内涵又是怎样的？工业设计和工程技术的关系是怎样的？工业设计专业毕业后我们将扮演什么样的职业角色？工作内涵和发展前景如何？这些问题是新生选择工业设计专业前都急于想得到回答的？这就是本讲座主讲人想和同学们交流探讨的…
1.电动汽车和与传统汽车的主要区别；2.汽车碰撞下动力电池发生破坏和热失控的机理及建模仿真；3.未来智能交通场景下自动驾驶车辆仍会发生碰撞事故；4.智能汽车的安全保护策略；5.汽车重量与交通安全的关系。
Geobiology explores the relationship between life and the physical Earth. Geobiology encompasses field and laboratory experiments designed to understand how interacting biological and physical processes shape environments， both locally and globally， as well as geological investigations of how Earth and life have interacted across our planet's entire 4.6-billion-year history.
Visual sensing and tracking are needed in many engineering applications including robotics. In this talk， I will present our research in visual sensing for automated 3D sensing in general and for motion tracking for robotics in particular. Different approaches in our investigation in 3D vision will be reported. 
电活性微生物能与其他微生物和矿物质交换电子，对现代碳、金属和营养物质的生物地球化学循环产生重大影响，并在有机和金属污染物的生物修复中发挥重要作用。电-地质生物学研究的原理促进了生物电化学技术的发展，如电合成。蛋白质纳米线是一些电活性微生物的导电结构，已被开发为一种可持续生产的电子材料，用于制造仿生记忆和生物医学传感相关的新型电子设备，以及用于“空气发电”(Air-gen)设备，该设备可以利用大气中自然存在的湿度发电。
Nowadays， the semiconductor manufacturing techniques are approaching their physical limits， the Moore's law is gradually becoming inapplicable， and the issue of dark silicon comes out to be severe. 
Ubiquitous smart devices and the internet of things create tremendous data every day， shifting computing diagrams towards data-driven. Traditional computers' computing and memory units are physically separated， which leads to substantial energy costs and time delays.
David C White is often considered a grandfather of environmental lipidomics and an early leader examining life in the deep terrestrial subsurface. Dr. White was an M.D.， Ph.D. who received his Ph.D. in Biochemistry from Rockefeller University in New York in 1962. 
围绕孔隙介质的时间分数阶电导率模型，建立时间分数阶电磁反常扩散方程，开展电磁感应-极化共生效应的数值模拟，高低温超导传感器和电磁感应-极化双场探测新系统的研发关键技术，分数阶电阻率、极化率-广义趋肤深度多参数成像方法，以及超导电磁探测系统在黑龙江、河南等多金属矿精细探测实验。
太古代(38-25亿)生命演化和生物圈组成的主要证据包括叠层石和微化石、生物标记物以及稳定同位素。报告人首先总结太古代生命起源和早期演化的各种证据以及存在的争论，然后解析如何以稳定硫同位素(32S/33S/34S/36S)为主要手段，以澳大利亚早太古代重晶石为研究对象探讨35亿年前硫酸盐还原细菌演化的证据。最后总结35亿年前地球生物圈的可能组成。
Weak value amplification and other postselection-based metrological protocols can enhance precision while estimating small parameters，outperforming postselection-free protocols. 
微纳米机器是以功能材料的结构设计制备与表界面修饰为核心，能够将其他形式能量转化成机械能实现自主运动的微小型结构与器件。凭借其小尺度下精准可控的运动性能，微纳米机器被认为是未来生物医学领域的变革性技术之一。
Quantum sensors have achieved excellent performance combining high sensitivity with spatial resolution. Unfortunately， these sensors can only detect signal fields with frequency in a few accessible ranges， typically low frequencies up to the experimentally achievable control field amplitudes and a narrow window around the sensors' resonance frequency.
Life lies in motion， and likewise， all microbes depend on "current" ， the electron flow. Through the redox reaction， microorganisms transfer electrons via extracellular electron transport (EET)， where energy and ATP are generated.
水中新污染物，如:环境内分泌干扰物、持久性有机污染物、抗生素等物质的毒性或生态风险较高，化学性质稳定，无法被常规水处理技术有效去除，残存新污染物会对人体健康和生态环境造成风险，因而受到全球关注。
Weather risk affects economy， agricultural production in particular. Index insurance is a promising tool to hedge against weather risk， but current piecewise-linear index insurance contracts face large basis risk and low demand.
量子计算有可能在计算力方面实现巨大飞跃，而科学家、开发人员和研究人员在经典计算机上模拟量子电路的能力对我们实现这一目标至关重要。学术界、实验室和工业界的研究团体正在使用模拟器来帮助设计和验证在量子计算机上运行的算法。这些模拟器充分利用量子叠加和纠缠的特性，并建立在量子电路模拟框架之上。英伟达cuQuantum是用于加速量子计算工作流程的优化库和工具的 SDK。同时结合英伟达Tensor Core GPU，开发人员可以使用 cuQuantum 将基于态矢量和张量网络方法的量子电路模拟速度提高几个数量级。
Go is a statically-typed programming language that aims to provide a simple， efficient， and safe way to implement concurrent programs. To achieve its design purpose， Go recommends passing messages through channels as a less error-prone means of thread communication and also provides several new concurrency mechanisms and libraries to ease multi-threading programming. 
本次讲座，我将首先对微生物这一生物圈中最古老、最丰富的生命形式进行基本介绍，强调其作为地球生命多样性的主要部分，通过驱动生物地球化学循环执行重要生态系统功能。
在该讲座中，嘉宾将从宇宙诞生、元素物质的产生和行星演化历史。在此基础上讨论生命(微生物)的演化，以及它们怎么逐渐改变地球的大气、海洋和地球化学，使地球成为一个典型的宜居星球。
耐甲氧西林金黄色葡萄球菌(Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus， MRSA)是我国医院常见的一种耐药性细菌。MRSA能够产生对β-内酰胺抗生素不敏感的青霉素结合蛋白(Penicillin-binding protein 2a，PBP2a)来进行细胞壁合成，达到对大多数B-内酰胺抗生素的耐药性。
微腔激子极化激元(exciton-polariton)是一种半光半物质的准粒子，由光学微腔中的光子与腔内发光材料中的激子通过强耦合作用形成。
现代生物医学的发展与进步很大程度上依赖于先进探针的发明和使用。目前使用的发光材料，受限于自发辐射发光的物理属性，普遍具有30-100 nm的光谱宽度。
In this talk， I overview robot audition， and focus on the calibration and adaptation of microphone positions， microphone array orientations， time offsets， sampling rates， and transfer functions between microphones and sound sources， which are important issues in robot audition systems to deal with real environments.
Thermohaline circulation is sustained by external mechanical energy from wind and tidal dissipation. Sea water is two-component system. 
Vestibular system senses the head motion with five different units: three semicircular canals for detecting rotation in 3D and two otolith organs for detecting linear acceleration. /Structural and compositional changes within spines are the cellular basis of learning and memory.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most aggressive solid tumor， with extremely low survival rates. /Cell-cell interactions in tumor microenvironment are often mediated by protein molecules expressed by one cell that are recognized by specific receptors present on neighboring cells.
李亮，新加坡国立大学博士，现任南方科技大学医学院药理学系助理教授。长期应用体外重构类器官模型、原代细胞模型、多种动物模型与临床样本从事微生物与宿主相互作用机制的研究，并与临床应用相结合进行新型诊断和治疗方法的开发，对上皮与血管内皮物理屏障的保护与重构进行了单克隆抗体治疗与干细胞治疗的相应尝试。
Symbols， icons and pictograms aid the interaction with our physical and virtual environment. Well known examples are the battery charge indicator on your phone and the emergency exit pictogram in your building. 
以智能手机、可穿戴设备、loT设备为代表的终端设备通过从环境中学习知识并自我演化的现象正逐渐普遍，这一新型的机器学习范式被称为泛在学习。
The Baltic Sea comprises of several subbasins that differ in environmental parameters (salinity， organic matter deposition， iron oxide loading)， it provides a unique opportunity to investigate the relation between benthic nutrient and carbon cycling under different environmental conditions.
在世界新科技革命方兴未艾、产业竞争日趋白热化的今天，以华为、大疆、中兴等“粤海街道企业”为代表的一批中国高科技公司在21世纪第二个十年突出重围，以世界顶尖的产品重塑了中国制造的品牌价值和形象，也给中国的毕业生们塑造了能在世界产业最中心翩翩起舞的舞台。
分布式光纤声波传感(DAS)技术可以将常规通信光纤转换为空间密集的声波/地震波检测阵列，具有传感距离长、时空精度高、环境适应性强等独特优势，近年来发展迅猛，已经在周界安防、管线检测、资源勘探等领域得到广泛应用，并得到了地球物理、地震学、海洋水声等领域的重点关注。
We provide new evidence on the roles of CEO' s innovation skills and the Chinese government in corporate innovation， and on how these skills affect compensation outcomes and analyst coverage.
机体的免疫系统具有高度敏感性和特异性，能正确区分正常细胞和恶性细胞，并对后者进行清除，恶性肿瘤发生发展就是这些恶性细胞逃脱机体免疫监控过程。
Electricity is the fastest growing form of end-use energy， however a considerable portion of the electricity consumed worldwide is wasted in power conversion， especially in power semiconductor devices. 
机器人、无人机、无人驾驶汽车是如何感知这个世界的?激光雷达是什么?它在这些智能设备中扮演什么样重要的角色?跟随这堂讲座，带你进入缤纷的空间智能信息时代!
中国制造2025是计划通过物理信息系统(CPS)将生产中的供应-制造-销售有效集成，通过信息化和智能化，来实现个性化产品快速/有效的供应。其核心是智能制造:一个全面(包括设备和数据)自动化的无人工厂，这对未来的控制系统和智能决策提出了极高的要求
器官移植是守护生命的最后一道防线，公民逝世后器官捐献是人道、博爱、奉献的精神体现。让生命和希望在大爱中延续，用平凡的生命点亮不平凡的光。 
薛其坤，南方科技大学校长，理学博士，讲席教授，中国科学院院士。国际著名实验物理学家，主要研究方向为扫描隧道显微学、分子束外延、拓扑绝缘量子态和高温超导电性等。
A powerful perspective in understanding non-equilibrium quantum dynamics is through the time evolution of its entanglement content. Here， we unveil signatures of the entanglement evolving and information propagating out of equilibrium， from the view of the entanglement Hamiltonian.
Trustworthy learning and reasoning are the emerging and critical topics in modern machine learning， since most real-world data are easily noisy， such as online transactions， healthcare， cyber-security， and robotics. Intuitively， trustworthy intelligent system should behave more human-like， which can learn and reason from noisy data. 
智能材料是指一类在外界激励下可以做出主动响应的新型材料，具有自感知、自驱动、和自修复等功能，例如主动变体材料、可编程材料、数字材料、动态材料、和可重构材料等都属于智能材料范畴。4D打印技术作为一种新兴的先进智能制造技术，智能材料则是实现4D打印的关键性要素之一。
中国自1998年即开始探索构建多层次资本市场体系，近年还在注册制创新上取得实质进展。但是，究竟如何看待中国模式资本市场体系的有效性，如何理解中国特色注册制的背后逻辑?这些问题并没有得到清晰的答案。
Neuromodulation is the alteration of nerve activity through targeted delivery of a stimulus， such as photonic/magnetic/electrical stimulation or chemical agents， to specific neurological sites in the body./Blood circulation is so important that one of the vital signs of death is the stop of blood flow.
马里亚纳海沟南部的挑战者深渊被称为地球“第四极”，由于极大水深造成的高压环境，导致近场的地球物理观测十分稀少，因此对马里亚纳俯冲带南部的孕震构造，动力学机制等问题了解比较有限。
本讲座从“利奇-费孝通”之辩入手，探讨一种基于中华文明的人类学理论可能。我提出，无论是“竭泽而渔”的社区调查方法，还是“逐级向上”的“社会人类学的中国时代”命题，都属于“希腊-罗马认识域”（Greco-Roman episteme）的理论生成方式。近年出现的“以中释中”的主张，实际上与亚非拉地区的“后殖民研究”有着共同的认识论基础，即“家园例外论”。我提出，我们既不可能在所谓“西学”脉络中获得原创力，也不应该满足于论证己身社会的特殊性。一个可行的做法，是立足中华文明对“人的条件”的原创性认识，探索中国本土理论的普遍性。
We attempt a multifaceted comparison between human and machine intelligence， based on our research on autonomous systems and our recent book (*) analyzing the links between information， knowledge and intelligence.
金李，全国政协委员、九三学社中央常委、南方科技大学代理副校长、金融系讲席教授。曾任北京大学光华管理学院副院长，北京大学经济与管理学部副主任，北京大学国家金融研究中心主任，担任全国政协经济委员会委员、全球公司治理论坛理事会（GCGC）理事和中国区负责人、中国管理科学学会副理事长、中国管理现代化研究会顾问委员会副主席，中国银行业协会私人银行专业委员会首席学术顾问。
本次讲座首先将介绍多模态自监督学习和预训练模型的前沿研究趋势，八大关键难题及其广泛的落地场景和应用，包括开放域检测和分割、图文检索、2D/3D虚拟物体生成和时尚编辑、多模态机器人操纵和交互等。
Rerandomization aims to balance covariates between treatment and control groups where Mahalanobis distance is often adopted as a balance criterion. With high-dimensional covariates， the principal component analysis (PCA) can be leveraged to identify proper subspaces in which Mahalanobis distance should be calculated. 
本报告简要讲述光场显微镜的原理及发展历程，并针对其空间分辨率的挑战，从成像理论、重建方法和系统设计方面分享最新的研究成果和进展。
从智人到现在人类，在短短十几万年的时间里，人类从动物界中普通一员，发展到如今高度发达的文明社会。究竟是什么力量推动人类的进化？
为切实提高行政队伍的政策理论水平、业务履职能力和服务管理意识，打造深耕基层、甘于奉献、创新服务、日新自强的行政工作作风和精神谱系，推动学校治理体系不断完善、治理水平不断提高、治理效能不断增强，机关党委在全校范围内开展“榕思讲堂”活动。第一期由薛其坤校长做“以一流治理推进一流大学建设”为题的报告。
大数据和人工智能时代的新兴应用普遍具有数据密集性特征，性能需求高且难以通过传统的指令级并行大幅改善性能。
万书波，国际欧亚科学院院士，山东省科协副主席、国家花生产业技术体系岗位科学家，现任山东省农业科学院院长、二级研究员，博士研究生导师，国家花生工程技术研究中心主任。
The Authors investigate the impact of remote auditing on audit quality and the good practices under-taken by auditors to improve audit quality in remote auditing. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in China provides an opportune testing ground for analyzing the impact of remote auditing on audit quality. 
《江苏扬州市曹庄隋炀帝墓》为2013年中国考古新发现。隋炀帝和萧后墓葬M2出土的冠是目前考古发掘等级最高、时代最早、保存最完整的皇后礼冠，但保存状况极差。
地震波传播正演模拟是地震成像的基础，正演算法能决定地震成像效率、精度和分辨率。报告介绍基于求解波动方程和求解程函方程的两类地震成像方法，讨论两类方法的优缺点，介绍两类成像方法软件包研制和实际应用。
田瑞军，南方科技大学理学院化学系教授、国家杰出青年基金获得者、理学院化学生物学与组学分析研究中心主任。担任中国蛋白质组组织CNHUPO副理事长、中国化学会色谱专业委员会理事、中国质谱学会理事和中国分子系统生物学学会理事。
Elucidating the neural circuitry that underpins memory formation is critical to understanding how the brain adapts and stores information./Clustered Protocadherins have important functions in mammalian nervous system development and are encoded by three gene clusters termed α-，β-，and y-Pcdh.
Many optimal control， estimation and design problems can be formulated as socalled dynamic optimization problems， which are optimization problems with differential equations and other constraints. 
Deep learning based methods have achieved great successes in medical image analysis domain， thanks to its efficient and effective nature for supervised tasks.
陶渊明在中国文学史上经历了一个由晦到显的过程，这与中国诗歌艺术审美趣味的变化密切相关。陶渊明的个性追求与人生境界，为其诗歌创作奠定了内在审美基调。陶渊明对待自然、生死及穷困的态度，都在其诗作中得到了很好的展现。除了陶渊明超然世外的人生境界之外，在其诗歌中也展现出了其未能免俗的个人情感。所有这些都构成了陶渊明诗歌冲淡之美的田园诗特征。
炎症是机体对感染源或对体内某些代谢物产生的一种免疫反应，也是许多疾病的病理学基础。炎症反应的调控与类风湿性关节炎、动脉粥样硬化、艾滋海默症等人类重大疾病的发生发展密切相关。既往抗炎药物如环氧化酶抑制剂多注重抑制炎症因子的产生，但近年来的研究认为炎症消散是一个主动的过程。
The past decades have witnessed significant progress in the area of micro-robotics and medical robotics for providing innovative cell manipulation and characterization techniques.
Many human conditions， including cognition， are complex and depend on both genetic and environmental factors. After the completion of the Human Genome Project， genome-wide association studies have associated genetic markers such as singlenucleotide polymorphisms with many human conditions and diseases.
目前MEMS还面临着很多高性能芯片不达标、部分芯片无法有效地大规模生产，研发和制造成本较高的问题。开展MEMS工艺级和系统级设计技术研究对于解决这个问题有所帮助。
本次讲座将就消费级激光雷达这一话题，与大家分享机械式与固态激光雷达的技术历史、现状、发展前沿和力策在激光雷达方面的最新研发进展。
Secure Device-to-Device (D2D) communication is becoming increasingly important with the ever-growing number of Internet of-Things (IoT) devices in our daily life. 
谢和平，力学与能源工程专家，2001年当选中国工程院院士。现任深圳大学特聘教授，深地科学与能源研究院院长，广东省深地科学与地热能开发利用重点实验室主任、深圳市深部工程科学与绿色能源实验室主任。
The interaction of proteins with chemicals and other proteins underlies most if not all cellular activities， and many bioactive compounds modulate the molecular functions of proteins through direct physical interactions.
刘铁民，多伦多大学博士，哈佛医学院贝斯·以色列女执事医学中心和德克萨斯大学西南医学中心博士后，美国德克萨斯大学西南医学中心讲师。
本次讲座将从哥德尔的“逻辑革命”出发，带领大家了解人工智能正本清源的新认识；从人工智能之不能，思考在人机共存的新时代下，如何厘清人类的未来方向。
Joint radar-communications (JRC) systems integrate radio frequency sensing and communications. They operate in a shared and congested， possibly even contested-spectrum with the goal of improving both comnications and radar performances.
Wireless communication systems are moving to higher frequency bands (mm Wave in 5G and above 100GHz in 6G and beyond) and deploying large antenna arrays at the infrastructure and mobile users (massive MIMO， mmWave/terahertz MIMO， reconfigurable intelligent surfaces， etc.). 
本报告将简单介绍偏振光散射的基本理论、测量方法和数据分析方法，并介绍偏振方法在临床医学病理诊断，以及海洋微型颗粒物细致分类等方面的应用。
张继平，南方科技大学讲席教授、中国科学院院士、中俄数学中心主任、深圳国际数学中心执行主任。曾获国家杰出青年基金、教育部特聘教授、全国五一劳动奖章、全国先进工作者、全国优秀科技工作者、国家自然科学奖、陈省身数学奖等
Neuroligins are postsynaptic cell-adhesion molecules that contribute to synapse specification and mutation of neuroligins are strongly associated with autism.
在过往半个世纪里，深圳是世界上接纳新移民最多的城市——接近2000万人；也是全中国发展速度最快的城市之一，2021年它的经济总量达到3万亿——超过了全球160多个国家。它在狭小的地理空间里，给予了迁徙者多样的生存机遇和宽广的探寻之路。深圳，是全中国空气质量最好的城市之一；也是地理形态多样、生物多样性特别丰盛的城市，拥有2万多个动植物物种——超过整个英国。选择在这个城市读书，也蕴含着在这个城市里开始未来的可能。
报告将介绍新型显示发展现状，指出显示技术的发展方向，重点介绍激光显示优势、现状与未来，以及中科院理化所在激光显示技术和产业的进展，最后对激光显示的未来做出展望。 
Machine learning is a powerful technique that can derive knowledge from large data set， and provide prediction and modeling. Since VLSI chip designs have extremely high complexity and gigantic data， recently there has been a surge in applying and adapting machine learning to accelerate the design closure. 
Due to an increase in bandwidth as well as carrier frequency， mobile communications channels can become doubly dispersive， i.e. in time and in frequency. The increase in carrier frequency at constant velocities of mobile terminals also reduces the coherence time.
本次报告从一级市场、二级市场等投资的基本概念、底层逻辑出发，介绍投资行业研究的基本方法，然后从自上而下的角度深入研究分析新能源行业各个细分市场的前沿技术、投资价值，如光伏、风电、氢能、锂电储能、半导体、双碳产业链等方向的上中下游。
古代希腊、罗马世界的碑铭文化虽然在时间上和空间上分配并不均匀，但总的来说是丰富而持久的。那么古希腊罗马的碑铭文化有什么特点？如何释读？作为史料其价值是什么、局限性又是什么？碑铭文化在古希腊罗马政治、社会、文化中的作用如何？我们将选取一些具有代表性的碑铭为案例来探讨这些问题。本讲座受深圳市哲社科共建项目“阿拉伯文学中的废墟和城市记忆研究”（SZ2021D028）支持。
近年来济下行叠加贸易摩擦与疫情反复，导致实体经济下行压力明显增大，地方财政负担加重，中国的债务风险问题随之凸显。在此背景下，本文运用前沿的网络合成技术，考察债务风险的跨区域与跨行业传染效应，在此基础上，本文对完善债务违约处置机制，防范债务风险传染提出了若干建议，从而为现阶段我国债务风险防范，提供了有益的决策依据。
The somatosensory system relays many signals ranging from light touch to pain and itch.Touch is critical to spatial awareness and communication. We found that in mice， alloknesis in aging and dry skin is associated with a loss of Merkel cells， the touch receptors in the skin， resulting a reduction in the Merkel cell-Aß afferent signaling.
Persistent pain often occurs continuously ("spontaneously")， independent of painful hypersensitivity (hyperalgesia and allodynia). Such ongoing pain often is linked to ongoing electrical activity in primary afferent neurons. 
本报告将在新技术和社会条件下的设计教育变革趋势的基础上，介绍湖南大学“新工科-新设计”的设计教育改革情况。在此基础上，围绕汽车人机交互、机器行为、应急用户体验三个领域的设计研究，对设计以及设计研究未来的发展提出相关的思考和讨论。
在本次演讲中，我们将一起回顾使用 HCG/HCM 在 VCSEL、光束转向装置、生物传感器、4 波混频和空间光调制器等设备应用中的结果。同时，我还将讨论用于 3D 传感和激光雷达应用中 VCSEL 的发明和进展。
俞书宏，中国科学院院士，南方科技大学材料系/化学系讲席教授，南方科技大学创新材料研究院院长。国家杰出青年科学基金获得者，教育部特聘教授。
马蔚华，原招商银行股份有限公司执行董事、行长兼首席执行官，经济学博士，曾兼任香港永隆银行、招商信诺人寿保险有限公司和招商基金管理有限公司董事长，以及第十届全国人大代表，第十一届、十二届全国政协委员。
大数据时代，纷繁复杂的数据中隐含着各种蛛丝马迹。如何从复杂异构的数据中拨开层层迷雾，抽丝剥茧，获得真相？
本次分享为大家介绍一个我们在强化学习和Game AI领域的一些应用，探索和思考，也为大家介绍一个我们正在合作的海量智能体强化学习研究环境， Neural MMO。
本讲座将全面介绍百度最新基于知识增强的文心大模型及该模型的基本技术原理，聚焦各种可能的跨模态应用方式。本次讲座是为了“想象力入门”课程的学生基于大模型设计并开发具有创新性的想象任务而专门准备的。
岳鸿军，以水下摄影作品斩获中国摄影艺术最高奖——金像奖和英国皇家摄影学会博学会士第一人，现为深圳市大鹏新区珊瑚保育志愿联合会会长，企业家摄影协会(深圳)副主席，深圳市摄影家协会副主席，全球华人摄影联合会(GCPA)执行主席。
An overview is presented on Prof. Chen' s fiber-optic sensors research for the detection of physical and chemical measurands.
Integrated Sensing and Communication (ISAC) is recognized as a promising technology for the next-generation wireless networks. In this talk， we present a general framework to reveal the fundamental tradeoff between sensing and communications (S&C)， where a unified ISAC signal is exploited to perform dualfunctional tasks. 
青铜器代表了古代中国文明的成就，并在世界青铜文明中独具特色。中国古代青铜器既奠定了古代中国礼制的物质基础，也经历了走向兴盛和逐步衰退的发展过程。本次演讲将讨论技术的演进如何将青铜器发展推向高峰，技术与艺术如何在社会观念的影响下互动，又是如何成就中国青铜器的特性等。
Both plants and animals possess analogous tissues containing hierarchical networks of pores， with pore size ratios that have evolved to maximize mass transport and rates of reactions. The underlying physical principles of this optimized hierarchical design are embodied in Murray's law. 
Functional verification is an important aspect of electronic design automation (EDA). Traditionally， logic simulation at the register transfer-level has been the mainstream functional verification approach.
从分析线性时间观的落后性出发，基于现代主义理想化的进步已经被一种行星尺度的地质力量（人类世）的表征所破坏，此讲座将进一步阐释线性时间观的当代特性。为了帮助我们更加深入地理解现状，我们需要更加因“时”制宜的设计师、设计方法和设计目标。
20年后的人类社会，正面临着前所未有的灭顶之险——所有的人类都丧失了生育能力，而东欧和非洲国家已经四分五裂，人口向英国等富裕国家大量迁移。这就是电影《人类之子》（2006）中所描绘的末日图景。当孩子不再降生时，希望从何而来？这部近二十年前的作品，又能给我们当下这个充满危机的时代带来怎样的启示？本次讲座通过解读这部影片以及相关题材科幻文学作品，带领大家展开对于科幻影视和文学中末日叙事的讨论。
蒋兴宇教授，1999年获得美国芝加哥大学化学学士，2004年于美国哈佛大学化学系取得博士学位，师从美国两院院士George Whitesides教授。2005-2018年在中国科学院国家纳米科学中心任研究员。2018 年开始任南方科技大学讲席教授。
用户在浏览各种APP，或者在玩游戏的时候，如果遇到页面异常、卡顿，甚至app崩溃，是非常影响用户的体验。所以一款合格的app上线之前，是需要经过一系列的质量保障。
1.集成电路:信息社会的基石2.与时俱进:历史不会忘记3.方兴未艾:逆境中崛起4.踔厉奋发:明天会更好 
分布式光纤声波传感(DAS)具有广阔的应用前景。DAS通常基于相位敏感光时域反射仪(Φ-OTDR)或类似技术，它可以检测外界扰动引起的光纤内瑞利后向散射光的特征变化。相干探测技术可以精确恢复瑞利散射光的强度和相位，因而在近年来带动了DAS技术的快速发展。在本报告中，将讨论相干探测DAS的最新进展。 
在此报告中，他将讲述人工智能在生物医学领域中的应用。他将用人工智能在疾病预测和人工智能在药物筛选中的应用作为例子，讲述专业领域知识在人工智能应用中的重要性。
宋轩博士，2010年在北京大学获得博士学位，2010-2019年在日本东京大学任职博士后研究员，特任助理教授，特任副教授和副教授。2019年入职南方科技大学，目前是国家重点研发计划项目负责人，日本国家卓越研究员，“南方科技大学-东京大学超智慧城市联合研究中心”执行主任。
The mathematics in Russia achieved giant leaps in last 40s. In this lecture， we will review the careers and works of Kolmogorov， Arnold， Sinai etc on dynamical systems， in order to shed lights on perceiving the current status of the mathematics in China and in hopes of getting some perspectives on its future developments.
陈勇，中国工程院院士，中国科协常委，广东省科协主席，曾任广东省人民政府副秘书长、中科院广州分院院长、广东省科学院院长、中科院广州能源研究所所长。
Programming-by-example (PbE) is a technique for automatically teaching a computer new behavior via examples. PbE system attempts to inductively infer a program according to the specification demonstrated using concrete examples.
分布式声传感（Distributed Acoustic Sensing，DAS）技术是利用相干背向瑞利散射光的相位来探测音频范围内的声音或振动等信号，具有长距离、连续、高空间分辨率、全尺度（幅度、频率、相位）多通道信息的实时测量能力。
介绍南科大校内知识产权申请、横向课题管理、科技成果转移转化、技术入股、赋权等方面的政策制度与流程。
一、境外实验材料的进境法律风险（才卓律师）1、 生物材料定义及分类；2、 生物材料监管要求；3、 研发常用生物材料进境合规要求；4、 海关的执法权限与法律后果；5、 合规建议。二、涉外专利申请的保密审查制度简介（严志军律师）1、中国完成的发明创造向国外申请专利的保密审查；2、外国完成的发明创造向中国申请专利的保密审查；3、案例分享。
The scattering and diffraction of waves through complex media is a paradigmatic phenomenon that has captured the attention of various communities of physics for guite some time now. 
一、科技成果转化中的商业秘密保护与风险（邹雯律师）；二、美国商业秘密诉讼及海外人才引进风险及应对（宁敏律师）
We examine the hedging practice of hedge funds by proposing a measure of risk gap between hedge fund returns and stock holdings. 
主讲人受到西方分类学，即传统博物学的专业训练，长年从事哺乳动物分类研究；亦对我国传统文化有着浓厚的兴趣。本次讲座以孔子的“多识于鸟兽草木之名”为题，介绍我国古人对生命万物的认识，并讨论我国独特的博物学传统，及其之于当下博物学复兴的现实意义。
媒介间性（intermediality）是用于描述和分析戏剧和表演中特定现象的理论。当前针对剧场与表演中的媒介间性的理论大多认为在容纳多种媒介的表演中，各个媒介元素之间相辅相成，但又保持并强调自身的主体性。表演中设计的媒介间性往往意在离间观众，创造与众不同的观演体验。报告以虚拟现实舞蹈表演《VR_I》和人工智能装置《膜》为例，分析不同互动技术手段下的媒介间性现象和观演效果。
本报告分享课题组在宽带发光材料、O-L波段发射有源光纤和光纤激光器的设计制备，以及在光纤智能结构的工程实践等相关内容。
Federated Learning (FL) refers to distributed protocols that avoid direct raw data exchange among the participating devices while training for a common learning task. 
通过度量公募基金持股与市场中“傻钱” (例如中国市场中的个体投资者流动)的反向程度，本文构建了一个新的指标来度量公募基金的管理能力。
Micro OLED 全球产业格局、VR产业化关键技术节点及未来发展趋势与机会/1、MCU发展趋势和技术方向2、MCU的设计和制造相关流程3、平头哥RISC-V的内核介绍4、MCU架构，低功耗设计，可靠性设计 
Mobile edge computing (MEC) systems have become an important infrastrueture for supporting various emerging applications， such as the Internet of things， distributed data analysis， and distributed inference. 
本报告将从以下方面具体展开:团队如何管理?读博还是读硕?如何选方向?如何快速上手? Idea如何诞生?实验不顺利怎么办? Paper怎么写?好的科研习惯有哪些?怎样储备科研基础知识?科研状态如何调节?
观鸟是你一生走进大自然的门票。观鸟不仅目睹，而且耳闻。众多观鸟热衷者都不是专业的鸟类研究学家，他们观鸟是出于自然体验、消遣、博物实践和社交。
The synthesis， distribution and processing of optical signals is ubiquitous in our information society. Conventional fiber optical technology is currently facing increasing challenges that require high performance but with small size， weight and power consumption.
谢克昌，原中国工程院副院长，中国工程院院士，2013年当选美国国家工程学院外籍院士，连续三届担任全国人大常委，长期担任太原理工大学校长，从事化学工程和清洁能源的研究和教学工作。
非对撞机前沿物理实验包括引力波，超轻波动型的暗物质探测等重要方向。当粒子质量极轻时，其康普顿波长将达到宏观实验室尺度。
本次讲座将首先简要介绍大数据与人工智能安全的定义、原理和主要研究内容，包括人工智能内生安全和人工智能衍生安全。随后将通过实际案例展示由于人工智能安全漏洞所引发的现实风险。最后，还将介绍我们在大数据和人工智能安全防护与隐私保护上的最新研究成果。
针对图谱构建过程中遇到的数据标注不可信难题，介绍所提出的基于HodgeRank的异常样本发现框架。
Eukaryotic ribosomes generally do not assemble downstream of long open reading frames (ORFs). Here we showed that 80S ribosomes guide the piRNA formation from mRNA 3'UTRs after pioneer rounds of translation in mice and chickens. 
In the seminar， I will present an overview of and our contributions to recent progress in the hollow core optical fiber technology with emphasis on its applications in novel light source development.
Supramolecular chemistry is one of the most attractive topics in modern chemistry. Currently discrete metal-organic supramolecular assemblies have received much attention due to their ever-changing structures and extensive applications in catalysis， molecular encapsulation and separation， fluorescence sensing， biomedicine and so on. 
本次沙龙关注从四川大凉山到珠三角打工的彝族女性的流动经历。基于在凉山彝族自治州和珠三角两地的深度访谈和参与式观察，报告人将分析阶层、族群和性别的因素是如何相互交织，塑造彝族女工在流动过程中性别化的体验。
随作数据计算负荷的增长与CPU性能提升的减缓，ICT产品正在面临架构变革。/浅析DRAM基础、历史及产品，从技术与市场角度展望DRAM未来发展趋势。
开源开发模式以互联网为载体，可有效汇聚群体智慧，为产业和社会带来了机会，但因其开放性和复杂性又面临诸多挑战。
Dr Xiaolong Chen has a proven research record that he is undertaking a leading role in digital manufacturing functional architectures for sustainable energy harvesting and storage.
杨学明，南科大代理副校长，理学院院长，中国科学院院士/张继平，南科大校长办公会成员，深圳国际数学中心执行主任，中国科学院院士
报告将从应用于增强现实的物体6D姿态估计领域近些年的学术进展出发，讨论将学术上相对完善的算法形成实际解决方案落地于应用场景过程的经验。 
程序动态控制流追踪(Dynamic Control-Flow Tracing)是软件开发和维护过程中不可或缺的技术手段，被广泛应用于软件测试、调试、安全防护、编译优化、以及性能分析等众多领域。
本次报告将介绍研究团队在异构纳米结构金属材料领域取得的一些进展，包括超精密加工技术和激光加工等制备手段、相变和纳米孪晶等微观结构演化、机械性能及其塑性机理等。
杨春和，中国工程院院士，中国科学院武汉岩土力学所研究员、博士生导师、油气地下储备与开发研究中心主任。
章亮炽院士是南方科技大学讲席教授、深圳市跨尺度制造力学重点实验室主任、南方科技大学创新智造研究院院长、澳大利亚联邦工程院院士；研究领域为智能精密制造和制造力学，处于国际领先地位。他二十余次获国际学术成就奖，长期担任领域顶级期刊的编委、《摩擦学和材料表面工程》和《精密制造》学术专著系列主编。
本报告将分析隐私、隐私计算、数据安全等概念与技术的区别与联系，并对隐私计算的框架与关键技术，以及安全多方计算、密文计算、机密计算等数据安全技术进行介绍，对隐私计算与数据安全的未来发展进行展望。
Silicon quantum dots is one of the most promising quantum computing platforms. After the atomic qubits in silicon have seen tremendous progress in the past 20 years， the next challenge for the atom qubits in silicon is to tailor functional components for scalable guantum computing.
Mutation Analysis is a fundamental approach in the field of software engineering which is a fault-based approach. Mutation Analysis has been increasingly and widely studied since it was first proposed in the 1970s.
饶海，医学院生物化学系教授。1989年武汉大学本科毕业后，在美国留学、工作31年。2020年底以德克萨斯大学健康中心分子医学系终身正教授离开而全职加入南方科技大学。
In addition to a regular tsunami， the volcanic explosion of 15 JAN 2022 in Tonga generated gravitoacoustic air waves in the atmosphere which circled the Earth several times and were recorded by pressure and seismic sensors. /The January 15， 2022 eruption produced seismic ground motions recorded world-wide， generated from three primary interactions between the solid Earth and atmosphere.
在中国的非洲贸易经纪人购买仿冒品或复制品，并通过贿赂的方式将其运至非洲港口。这种贸易虽然非法，但却给非洲带去了需要的全球产品。本文基于最近与非洲贸易经纪人的访谈，考察了互联网和COVID-19如何影响他们的贸易。 非洲客户现在可以通过智能手机了解商品的准确价格；计算机化的海关制度使行贿变得困难；COVID-19大大提高了运输成本。尽管政策制定者努力根除这些交易经纪人，但这些商人的非正式经济贸易可能会继续，而中国可能不再是他们的商品来源。
Data center， dedicated space to house computer systems and associated components， plays an important role in propelling digital transformation globally， especially in the presence of a global pandemic (e.g.， COVID-19).
亲子双双居家隔离，24小时“双宿双飞”，家长视野全方位在孩子身上，使得孩子无处“遁逃”，时间长了难免成为双方的定时炸药。怎么避免把焦虑烦躁的情绪传递给孩子?怎么在特殊时期增进和改善亲子关系?本次微课，我们一起来探讨!
没有接受过专业训练、对身边野生动植物一窍不通的人，可能成为博物学家（naturalist）吗？答案是：可以！本讲的讲者将分享自己以记者的背景多年来在野外的亲身经历，讲述自己在博物中的切身感受与经验，并论述无论何种教育背景和工作领域的人都可从博物活动中受到大自然的启发，为自己的学业、事业搭起一座跨界的桥梁。努力成为博物学家，不仅可以显著提高“格物致知”的能力，更能提升审美水平、增加人生的幸福感，或许后者对于当下的我们是更为重要的。
笼目(Kagome)化合物为探索几何、拓扑和关联电子之间丰富的相互作用提供了一个丰饶的平台。在本次报告中，我们将重点讨论一种拓扑笼目金属CsV3Sb5，它表现出了一系列对称性破缺电子相，包括电荷密度波、电子向列性和超导性。
3D LiDAR sensor has become an indispensable device in modern autonomous driving vehicles. It captures more precise and farther-away distance measurements of the surrounding environments than conventional visual cameras.
王敏，中央美术学院教授，博导。曾任中央美院设计学院院长、长江学者特聘教授，香港理工大学设计学院讲座教授、国际平面设计师协会(AGI)中国区主席、AGI执行理事、国际平面设计联合会副主席、世界经济论坛创意经济理事会理事、世界经济论坛设计创新理事会理事、2008年北京奥组委形象与景观艺术总监。
The invention of optical fiber in the 20th century has not only revolutionized the way people communicate but also brought about significant changes in optical sensing， laser and many emerging research fields. 
杨新，环境科学与工程学院院长、讲席教授，教育部“长江学者”特聘教授 。研究领域主要包括大气气溶胶物理化学特性及环境气候效应、城市区域空气质量、新型环境检测技术研发等。
Collective atomic qubits between the ground and Rydberg states can be deterministically converted into single-photons， making them well-suited for scalable quantum network-type protocols. 
叶志明，理学博士、加拿大博士后，上海大学力学与工程科学学院教授（二级），力学与士木工程博士生导师，长期从事本科教学第一线教学工作，享受国务院特殊津贴。
讲座从情绪是如何产生的，常见问题情绪的应对方式有哪些，情绪管理通用处方等方面展开分享。
在此报告中，我将介绍一种基于热脉冲处理方法来快速、高效制备多孔碳负载超细纳米颗粒(包括锦、铝、锡、金、铜、硅等)复合材料的策略。
在2030年“碳达峰”、2060年“碳中和”国家战略目标背景下，我国已经明确未来要建立以新能源为主体的新型电力系统，确立了未来光伏、风电的长期发展道路。作为支撑可再生能源发展的关键，大规模储能技术对增加新能源渗透率尤为重要。
Biological actuators show great adaptivity and stimuli responsiveness. Among various stimuli， light and magnetic fields are the two with distinguishing advantages of non-contact and high-resolution spatiotemporal control. 
碳基纳米材料具有独特的理化性质和广泛的应用前景，因此受到了广泛关注。本报告将围绕先进碳基纳米的设计、合成和应用展开讨论。
是什么推动了时代的发展?有人会说，是人类文明。那又是什么让人类文明成为可能?细探究竞，追根潮源，是材料构建了我们整个文明世界。
博物学是一门古老学问，平行于自然科学存在、演化，如今虽已式微，但考虑到“天人系统”的可持续生存，它仍可以复兴起来。推动公众博物活动，是想在高科技时代，让人类个体访问大自然的通道保持畅通。
Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become a critical application in edge systems. The resource-constrained nature of the edge system requires cross-layer optimization for Al deployment. 
压力及情绪从何而来；如何正确认识压力；如何对自己进行管理。
本次分享首先简要回顾推荐系统30年的发展历史，然后通过对当前推荐中偏置问题的介绍，引出因果启发的推荐模型，包括因果干预、反事实学习等技术，重点介绍产品上实用、学术上领先的因果纠偏方法，并在讲解的过程中普及因果推断的基本概念和方法。
将从健康睡眠的重要性，以及失眠的成因及表现展开讨论，并分享自我调节失眠的实用技巧及失眠的医学治疗方法。 
刘科院士是全球知名的能源专家，亦是拥有MBA的业界领袖，现任南方科技大学创新创业学院院长、讲席教授，中国与全球化智库常务理事，副主任。 
该讲座针对该政策进行解读并介绍工业设计奖项的申报时间、流程及评审注意事项等，欢迎广大师生莅临! 
疫情之下，居家办公的我们如何与家人达成一致，营造工作氛围，提高工作效率？如何应对疫情产生的生理、心理行为？本课程结合案例分享，帮助员工习得稳定情绪的方法，学会情绪的自我疏导，从而增强必胜信心，激发工作的积极状态。
尊敬的老师，亲爱的同学们：最近深圳疫情出现反复，我们的校园实施封闭管理。校园封闭管理下的我们，是否出现紧张、焦虑、烦躁等情绪状态，不要着急，南科大健康“心灵处方”来咯，特别邀请深圳市康宁医院脑调控及精神康复研究室负责人周勇杰博士线上开展心理健康教育讲座，让我一起守护“心灵绿码”。
This talk will cover 3 topics: 1) a general approach to design metamaterial and metasurface devices for subwavelength control of light; 2) a highly efficient quantum model to harness quantum effects in mesoscopic plasmonic systems; 3) active， tunable and nonlinear metasurfaces for imaging and sensing applications. 
Bone is strong， tough yet lightweight， which can be attributed to its complex hierarchical structures across multiple length scales. The factors contributing to these superior properties are still not completely understood， especially its structure at the sub-micron- and nano-scales.
本报告将介绍近年来超低损耗异质集成氮化硅光芯片技术的发展和前沿应用，并着重介绍报告人在本领域的一系列重要成果。
This talk will cover origami-based morphing structures and metamaterials， mainly focusing on their design， modeling， fabrication and potential applications.
Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has become one of the dominating methods for 3D structural determination of wide variety of proteins and their complexes. 
卢黎歌，男，西安交通大学马克思主义学院二级教授，博士生导师。陕西高校哲学社会科学重点研究基地——陕西高校德育研究中心主任。享受国务院政府特殊津贴专家，国家精品课主持人，省教学名师，省优秀教学团队负责人，获得2017年度全国思想政治教育影响力人物标兵，宝钢优秀教师奖，三秦学者，校首届教学卓越奖等荣誉称号，西安交通大学学术领军学者、卢黎歌名师工作室首席专家。在“3.18”座谈会受到习近平总书记亲切接见。
本次课程主要讲述如下内容：1.博物学是什么？2.博物学的意义：对于个人而言，重新建立与自然的关联，获得发自内心的对自然的情感；对于社会而言，基本的博物知识和博物情怀，是建设生态文明的基础。3.博物学与数理科学的区别。4.如何进行博物实践：从了解植物开始。
Mid-infrared (MIR) and Terahertz (THz) spectral regions， hereafter defined as the ~3-300 μm wavelength range， hosts particular scientific and technological interests.
孟晓驷，经济学博士，第十二届全国政协常委，中华人民共和国文化部原副部长，全国妇联原副主席。长期分管国际交流和组织工作，具有丰富的领导经验和开阔的国际视野。在北京大学、清华大学、上海复旦大学、中国传媒大学和外交学院等多所高等学府讲授文化和领导力专题以及口才与沟通艺术的实践提升普受好评。
This paper studies the relationship between retail investors' demand and stock returns on stock characteristics. Using a k-means clustering algorithm， we find that retail investors from a Chinese brokerage cluster into two groups that favor the dichotomous constellations of stock characteristics regarding price， volatility， turnover， value/growth， and past performance.
The data-driven AI systems(e.g.， machine/deep learning)continue to achieve substantial strides in enabling cutting-edge intelligent applications.
In this talk， I will report the recent development of advanced functional fibers. Especially， the integration of semiconductor materials into fiber geometries provides a unique route to achieve fiber-level optoelectronic and thermoelectric integration， as well as in-fiber material engineering. 
Microvascular network imaging in vivo provides valuable insights into the understanding of a wide variety of diseases such as cardiovascular diseases， diabetes， neurodegenerative diseases， chronic kidney disease and cancers. In particular， microvascular impairment in retina has been biomarkers of blindness-threatening diseases.
The interaction of proteins with chemicals and other proteins underlies most if not all cellular activities， and many bioactive compounds modulate the molecular functions of proteins through direct physical interactions. 
Animal cells live in an environment called extracellular matrix (ECM)./Sensing mechanical properties of the microenvironment plays critical roles in physiological processes such as development， tissue homeostasis， and diseases. 
Deep neural networks have achieved unprecedented success over a variety of tasks and across different domains. At the same time， it has been shown that DNNs models are vulnerable to a very small human-imperceptible perturbation.
非线性系统的最优控制动态规划方法需要求解非线性Bellman方程，离散时间的问题由于需要求解非线性差分方程，其求解非常困难。长期以来，动态规划方法虽然理论上可以求解非线性系统的最优控制问题，但是由于时间反向计算而产生的“维数灾”问题，实际问题中无法完成其超大的计算量。
近十年来基于纳米碳材料结构和界面调控制备柔性材料和柔性多功能器件领域开展了系统研究工作，主要集中于发展新型柔性碳材料，构建新界面对电荷分离、传输与复合的影响和机制，并进一步研究该优化策略和机制的普适性等方面，取得了一些研究成果。
This paper introduces a three-factor stochastic volatility model to consistently price options written on the S&P500 stock index and volatility index (VIX).
铁电材料具有非易失的自发极化，极化畴的有序排列可以在界面处提供高达GV/m的强局域电场，可以对半导体进行高空间分辨率(纳米尺度)的能带调控。因此，铁电的强局域电场提供了一种有效的低维半导体pn掺杂方法，适用于多种信息器件的制备。
Dr. Chi-chung Hui is Professor of Molecular Genetics at University of Toronto and Senior Scientist in the Program in Developmental & Stem Cell Biology of the Hospital for Sick Children Research Institute. 
Many natural structures out-perform conventional synthetic counterparts due to the specially evolved multi-scale， multi-material， and multi-functional architectures. 
通识教育与专业教育是现代高等教育中最为基础与核心的一组关系。本次报告将基于美国工程教育协会发布的重要文件、麻省理工学院1865-2020年间的课程手册、加利佛尼亚大学洛杉矶分校工学院的教育发展项目、欧林工学院的课程计划等资料，分析美国精英工程教育中通识教育的历史变迁，探讨通识教育如何在职业地位竞争和教育质量提升的话语下不断发生演变，服务于美国工程人才的培养。 
Lake Baikal (Siberia) is the deepest， oldest and largest lake on Earth containing in itself more than 20% of the liquid freshwater on the planet. For some years we have studied its microbiome by metagenomics establishing some interesting facts. 
As the development of the Internet of Things (IoT)， trillions of widely-distributed devices are integrated for health monitoring， biomedical sensing， environmental protection， infrastructure monitoring， and security， which require power supplies. 
光子及光电子器件是现代科技发展的重要基础之一，然而众多的光子及光电子器件在设计制造成形后，其功能就已固化不可再变，这就大大限制了它们的可调控性和应用范围。
知识图谱是人工智能的重要基石。各领域大规模知识图谱的构建与应用已对知识图谱存储与查询技术提出了新挑战。/医疗健康是目前人工智能和大数据最为关注的领域。人工智能+医疗大数据将对医疗产业赋予新的能量与机会。
合成生物学通过构建基因线路等一系列手段与工具编辑特定生物行为，实现绿色制造、生物传感等一系列功能。然而，单纯的生物体难以独自完成复杂、多维度及多层次的任务。与水凝胶等一系列生物材料相结合可极大的拓展合成生物学理论与应用的范围和深度。本报告将介绍报告人近期实验室工作:通过结合工程细菌与智能材料实现多层次、多样式的生物智造。 
Both algebraic and dynamical approaches are widely used for solving quantum many-body problems. Conventional canonical perturbative dynamical methods based on Wick's theorem and Feynman's diagrammatic technique are naturally suitable for weakly coupling systems. 
纳米磁流体(又称磁性液体/铁磁流体)是一种由纳米磁性金属粒子、基液和表面活性剂组成的均匀稳定的胶体溶液，既具有液体的流动性又具有磁性材料的磁学特性，，在磁场的作用下可形成多变的微观结构，能在很大的程度上改变光的透射率和折射率，产生大的磁致双折射效应、法拉第旋转、二向色性等磁光效应。
In this talk， we will start with a brief review on the 5G vision. We then share a few strategic 5G vertical clusters in Singapore， look at the some of the unaddressed gaps from 5G， and discuss the driving needs for 6G technologies. 
樊春海，上海交通大学王宽诚讲席教授，中国科学院院士。南京大学学士、博士，加州大学圣芭芭拉分校博士后。2004-2018年任中国科学院上海应用物理研究所研究员。2018年起任上海交通大学化学化工学院教授，现任转化医学研究院执行院长、国家转化医学科学中心唐仲英首席科学家。兼任美国化学会ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces副主编，Angewandte Chemie， Accounts of Chemical Research， ACS Nano等十余份国际知名杂志编委，ChemPlusChem编委会共同主席。入选美国科学促进会(AAAS)、国际电化学学会(ISE)、美国医学和生物工程院(AIMBE)和英国皇家化学会(RSC)会士，已发表论文500余篇，引用5万余次，H因子>110，近七年连续入选“全球高被引科学家”。
Environmental factors， including herbicides， metals and endocrine chemical disruptors， impact human health inevitably to cause many human environmental diseases (cancers， obesity and type 2 diabetes， and neuronal disorders).
"美国国会于当地时间2021年12月8日周三召开了听证会，并在五个小时中听取了来自六家区块链公司领导人的证词。共和党众议员帕特里克·麦克亨利(Patrick Mchenry)则表示， 需要确保Web 3.0革命发生在美国。另外，对其展开的监管需要有合理规划，否则将会扼杀美国的创新能力，并使其在竞争中处于劣势。
Wide Band Gap (WBG) devices such as Silicon Carbide (SiC) and Gallium Nitride (GaN) have been widely considered as the next generation of power semiconductors. However， to unlock the full potential of SiC and GaN devices， design of power converters principles need to be revisited and modified. 
实现物质对称性的调控是研究凝聚态物理和创造新奇现象的重要基础。半个世纪以前，物理学家安德森就在More is different ( Science 177， 393 (1972) )中提到凝聚态物质的研究即是对称性的研究。
他是同学们最喜爱的“融爸爸”；他是精力充沛，出口成章的演讲“大师”；他关注教育，重视创新，并强调将创新思维付诸于工程实践……此次，融教授又将带来怎样精彩的分享呢?精彩内容，不容错过!诚邀全校师生参加!
Is it possible to derive the driving forces and key mechanisms of cancer formation and evolution from cancer tissue omic data? An evolutionary framework is clearly needed to accomplish this ambitious goal.
新冠肺炎全球暴发，严重危害人类健康，目前仍然缺乏有效治疗手段和方法。虽然疫苗和中和抗体已经应急授权使用，各国也竞相接种，但近期突变株日益流行，造成严重威胁和挑战。
人问寒山道，寒山路不通。夏天冰未释，日出雾朦胧。你知道寒山是谁吗？你读过他的诗吗？你是否想知道，美国的嬉皮士一代为什么特别喜欢寒山？一位在中国并不知名的诗僧到了国外，名气为什么会比诗人李白、杜甫还大？一位二十世纪的美国著名作家，写了一本著名的小说，为什么要敬献给中国和尚寒山？12月31日下午2点，南科大一教108，让我们一起来谈谈寒山。
康彦新，研究馆员职称，现任西柏坡纪念馆研究部主任，河北师范大学特约研究员，石家庄社科联常委。多年来主要从事西柏坡历史和精神研究。共主持和参与编写了《光荣平山团》《小村大情：不朽的丰碑》《西柏坡档案》《西柏坡纪事》《西柏坡记忆》《西柏坡的故事》《七届二中全会实录》等专著20余部，在中央、省级刊物发表文章近百篇；主持完成《红色土地，英雄河北》《人民民主的范例》等多个主题展览。
To achieve successful invasion， some pathogens and pests have evolved a cross-kingdom RNA interference (RNAi) virulence mechanisms to suppress host immunity./氰烯菌酯是我国自主创制的一种结构新颖、选择性极强的氰基丙烯酸酯类杀菌剂。
Our brain is a intelligent biological computer with a power consumption of only 20 W， which is connected by up to 1015 synapses. Neurons are the basic unit of our brain for memory and information processing.
The research of magnetic confinement nuclear fusion has made much significant progress in the past half-century， and it is gradually transitioning from scientific research to the engineering implementation stage. 
Ynamides are special alkynes attached to the nitrogen atom bearing an electron-withdrawing group， which provides enhanced stability. The electronic properties and the reactivity of ynamides can be easily tuned by the selection of the electron-withdrawing group attached to the nitrogen， thus making them highly versatile synthons.
Disrupting memories that associate environmental cues with drug experiences holds promise for treating addiction， yet accessing the distributed neural network that stores such memories is challenging. 
Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) can provide fingerprint structural information of molecules with ultrahigh surface sensitivity. However， only a few metals （like Au， Ag， and Cu) with particular nanostructures can generate strong SERS effects. 
可穿戴多模式生理信号采集与处理系统芯片经历了超过十年的发展，各种主要监测模式心电(ECG) ，光体积(PPG) ，体阻抗(Bioz)都发展到相当完善的程度。
作为探索大脑的重要技术手段之一，脑机接口是一项重大战略性技术，其研究成果将会对未来人类生产生活方式产生颠覆性影响，亦会对未来战争模式产生深远的影响。
Geometric and holonomic quantum computation utilizes intrinsic geometric properties of quantum-mechanical state spaces to realize quantum logic gates. 
As numerous connections between metabolic activities ano oncogenic signaling have been discovered， the importance of metabolic reprogramming in cancer is being increasingly recognized. 
1.全球新冠疫情及疫苗概况; 2.新冠防控的中国及上海方案: (1)公共卫生策略， (2)新发传染病的科技项目创新方案， (3)新冠治疗方案创新; 3.新冠防控的三院防控方案: (1)公共卫生策略， (2)新发传染病的科技项目创新方案， (3)新冠治疗方案创新。 
CRISPR loci and Cas proteins provide adaptive immunity in prokaryotes against invading bacteriophages and plasmids. In response， bacteriophages have evolved a broad spectrum of anti-CRISPR proteins (anti-CRISPRs) to counteract and overcome this immunity pathway.
Maintaining or even improving gate performance with growing numbers of parallel controlled qubits is a vital requirement for fault-tolerant quantum computing.
报告主要讲述团队十年间研制的15个系列无人艇所突破的关键技术，在各个海域执行大量任务的经历。
生物反应器中的细胞犹如微型化工厂，无时不刻的进行着成千上万的化学反应。然而，这些化学反应有的会产生有细胞毒性的代谢废物、有的互为竞争反应。
Data communication， parametric sensing and remote powering are the three fundamental functions of wireless technology. They have so far been independently enabled by various RF and wireless transceivers.
光磁效应是一种求而不得的光与物质相互作用:它很难被探测但同时却能带来重要的应用。我们利用结构光场对磁探针的纯磁激发来实现对磁光力的测量，并以此来探索光磁效应。本报告也会介绍光诱导力显微镜作为重要的近场光学表征仪器的原理与特点。
创新创业大讲堂邀请北京大学政府管理学院教授、北京大学“十佳教师”、北京大学法治政府研究中心主任、中央与国家机关司局级干部自主选学计划宪法学专题主讲教授包万超，作题为《全球新秩序中的中国元素》的报告。
By analysing more than one million financial analyst reports， we construct a financial analyst sentiment index based on the aggregated textual tone of analyst reports. 
举办国际会议是一所大学发挥国际影响力的重要窗口，全球同行通过会议品质来观察办会高校的办学水平和综合管理能力。高水平的国际会议至少包含4个核心要素——系统设计、核心内容、细节执行、闭环管理。如果说会务管理是“术”，核心内容则为“道”。本次工作坊将基于国际合作部过去7年举办的各种重大涉外活动，凝炼出国际会议的价值思考和方法与技巧，目的是构建国际会议的品牌思维，办出高质量、有价值、有影响力的国际会议。
Herbivorous insects are the most species-rich among metazoans.The high rate of diversification in herbivores is thought to be driven by the co-evolved relationships of insects with their plant hosts./Catabolism is the sum of metabolic processes by which the cell breaks down complex molecules to provide energy， redox power and precursor metabolites for cell proliferation. 
Necroptosis is a pro-inflammatory form of cell death with critical roles in host defense and immune homeostasis.Receptor Interacting Protein Kinase 1 (RIPK1) and RIPK3 are key signal adaptors in necroptosis. 
张国祚，教授、博士生导师，中央马克思主义理论研究和建设工程首席专家，国家教材委员会专家委员会（马工程）专家，国家社科基金项目会议评审专家，中国社会科学院习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想研究中心学术指导委员会专家，中央党史文献研究院毛泽东思想生平研究会理事，湖南大学马克思主义学院名誉院长，中国文化软实力研究中心主任，《文化软实力》主编，清华大学双聘教授，北京大学、中国人民大学、北京师范大学、武汉大学兼职教授，厦门大学、四川大学客座教授。
In this talk， I will introduce our recent work in analyzing rare copy number variations in the UK Biobank and splicing defects in pan-B-cell neoplasms 
In this report， Professor Yuguang Ma will introduce the development history and research status of organic semiconductors and discuss the future based on his 40 years of research experience in organic optoelectronic materials. 
心血管病是威胁我国居民健康的首要疾病。在国民主动健康意识日益增强及我国老龄化进程加速的趋势下，心血管参数检测与健康风险评估面临着迫切的需求。
本次报告以“海上浮动式核动力平台技术简介”为题，首先介绍核电发展历程和核电站基本原理，然后介绍国际上小型堆技术和发展情况，最后介绍中广核ACPR50海上浮动式核动力平台技术和建设意义。
最新的影像基因组学研究表明，毫米尺度的医学影像特征与肿瘤分子特性存在关联性，而人工智能方法为研究这种影像-基因关联性提供了新工具。
报告将主要介绍浸液式超表面在主动操控和功能复用的两个方面的近期进展。主动操控方面，，提出了一种基于亲疏水超表面的浸润式主动光束操控的方法，可实现在干燥或浸润情况下对光束方向的主动操控，验证了该独特调控手段的可行性，为液浸调控方法探索了新的途径。
非线性系统的最优控制动态规划方法需要求解非线性Bellman方程，离散时间的问题由于需要求解非线性差分方程，其求解非常困难。/由于全球人口快速老龄化，当前机器人的研究趋势已经从传统的与人类分离的工业机器人转向与人类共存、合作和协作的"以人为中心的机器人。
近年来，国外关于邻近性与创新的研究视角已从地理邻近拓展到多维邻近，相关研究成果已在国内得到运用，多维邻近性与产学研合作创新的关系正在进入人们的研究视野。本研究以广州市高新技术产业作为研究对象，围绕多维邻近性对产学研合作创新的影响进行研究。在探讨影响产学研合作创新的邻近性因素及其作用机理的基础上，先就地理邻近性对高新技术产业创新的影响效应进行考察，继而以地理邻近性为切入点，结合其他邻近性维度对广州市产学研空间分布及联系展开分析，最后运用多案例研究方法对多维邻近性对广州市高新技术产业产学研合作创新的影响进行重点研究。
Large arrays of Rydberg atoms have become one of the leading platforms in the world for quantum simulation and quantum computation. 
Radio-frequency (RF) power amplifiers (PA) are top power consuming components， especially with today's 5G technology. To improve the PA's efficiency， dynamic power supply technologies， such as average power tracking (APT) and envelope tracking (ET) have been proposed. 
Necroptosis is a pro-inflammatory form of cell death with ritical roles in host defense and immune homeostasis.Receptor Interacting Protein Kinase 1 (RIPK1) and RIPK3 are key signal adaptors in necroptosis. 
Profiling the molecular features of all cells with their anatomical and functional attributes is essential for understanding the human body in health and diseases. 
Our society demands new materials development to meet current civilization. In all aspects， new materials development needs to integrate the disciplinary knowledge.
The research of magnetic confinement nuclear fusion has made much important progress in the past half-century， and it is gradually transitioning from scientific research to the engineering implementation stage. 
澳门国际仲裁学会兼职副研究员、北海国际仲裁院调解员、中国法学会会员。擅长股权纠纷、商事纠纷案件处理。
现邀请到：亚太鹏盛财税集团总部合伙人/高级会计师/资深注册会计师王占明先生，和主板上市公司顺利办联合创始人/深圳市代账协会副会长邓勋先生。为大家带来主题为“最新创业税收政策解析”和“创业必备财税常识”的报告。
近代人类信息技术的发展主要来源于我们对电子和光子的控制能力的进步。除了电子和光子，声子是我们生活中常见了另一种基木粒子，它代表的是物体振动和热的传输。
Archaea， the third domain of life (or probably， a second domain of life)， are characterized as unique group sharing bacterial and eukaryotic properties but also features own unique pathways and enzymes. 
从文明史思想史的大尺度看，百年未遇之大变局具有历史与世界的整体性、自然与人文科技的叠加态、偶性动因及蝴蝶效应的不确定性等特征；从文明秩序的根基出发，文明通鉴旨在克服地缘文明论的偏斜，以文明整体观发掘文明通鉴的底层逻辑，提出思想通约是文明通鉴的关键路径，普惠文明是文明通鉴的价值指归，这也是构建人类命运共同体的核心要求。
回顾近年传统中医脉诊、闻诊、望诊及嗅诊的理论探讨，现代化仪器的研制，以及当前检测仪器的临床应用概况。 
细胞微管骨架( Microtubules， MTs)在调控植物生长发育、细胞形态建成以及响应环境/胁迫信号等生理过程中发挥重要的作用。/光不仅是植物光合作用的主要能量来源，还作为一种重要的环境信号，调控植物的生长和发育和对逆境胁迫的响应。
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic human pathogen that causes a wide range of infectious diseases. 
孙琛，在深圳出生和长大，2009年前往美国完成高中学业后进入美国波士顿大学修读化学和数学统计学本科双学位，她在加州大学欧文分校获得无机化学博士学位，目前在南科大化学系做博士后。孙琛老师具有多年美国生活学习经验，她将受邀分享其在美求学经历及如何有效进行学业规划。
王春丽，红旗渠干部学院教师，艺术学硕士。自2014年参加工作至今，一直从事红旗渠精神研究和一线教学工作。/申义凯，红旗渠干部学院教师，安阳市党员教育讲师。
 The gyrotron traveling wave amplifiers (Gyro-TWAs) based on helically corrugated interaction regions (HCIRs) and cusp electron guns will be presented in this talk. 
林君浩，南方科技大学物理系副系主任，副教授，国家青年特聘专家，博士生导师，深圳市新型量子功能材料与器件重点实验室执行副主任，广东省“珠江人才计划”创新创业团队和深圳市“孔雀计划”高层次人才团队带头人。
此课程主要内容包括深度图像的数据特性及其相关的核心算法能力介绍。/课程介绍基于RGBD数据和点云重建的一般流程，包括点云配准的配准算法包括Pair-wise ICP和全局ICP等。
Optical fiber has been used in so many kinds of applications. By combing with materials science technology， it can be used in biomedical， chemical， and environmental sectors.These sensors have their own advantages over the current traditional ones.
Vacuum deposition is a toxic-solvent-free method that is compatible to current industrial production of solar cells. 
二维层状金属氧化物材料是一类多功能的宽带隙半导体材料，在光电、能源、传感、显示等领域有广泛的应用。
The recently proposed orthogonal time frequency space (OTFS) modulation has provided a new perspective for communication designs for future wireless systems.
本次研讨中将回顾介绍神经形态计算的兴起原因，尝试梳理神经形态计算与深度学习等的区别和联系，并以基于相变存储器的神经形态计算电路为例，介绍模型驱动的神经形态计算电路的设计。
叶青，深圳市建筑科学研究院股份有限公司董事长，国家一级注册建筑师、教授级高级工程师，并担任住建部科技委建筑节能与绿色建筑专业委员会副秘书长、中国城市科学研究会绿色建筑与节能专业委员会副主任、深圳市第七届人民代表大会常务委员会委员等社会职务。
海洋藻类分泌的胞外多聚物EPS具有高的粘性，促进了细胞积聚体和海洋雪的形成，驱动有机碳从溶解到颗粒的形态的转变，同时EPS的形成可加速颗粒有机碳从海洋表层输出到海洋内部甚至到达深海的进程，从而影响碳收支和海洋生物碳泵的效率。/海洋颗石藻是一类在全球海洋中广泛分布的重要的浮游植物功能群，可同时进行光合作用和钙化作用，在全球海洋碳循环中起到重要作用。
在数学中，要追求的不仅仅是证明定理和解决问题，而是首先要发现恰当的问题和疑问。报告人将列举两个有意思的数学命题，这两个命题都是真的，但其中一个与数学的许多部分有着深刻的联系，而另一个（据我们所知）只是一种娱乐，并将请听众投票决定它们如何对应。讲座的主要部分将给出许多其他的例子，这些例子来自于数论。报告人会以非常概括的方式谈论这类问题，目的是既能让优秀的本科生听懂，也能引起各个领域数学相关工作者的兴趣。
Oxidation reactions are central components of organic chemistry， and modern synthetic chemistry and industry increasingly require highly efficient oxidation methods and easily controlled process.
Driven by the increasing demand for the crop protection， there is an urgent need for antibiotic and herbicide with novel targets. /在高等植物配子发育的过程中，染色质高级结构发生了深刻的变化。
乐正，南方科技大学思想政治教育与研究中心教授，国务院特殊津贴专家。曾任中山大学教研室主任，深圳社会科学院院长、市社会科学联合会主席，深圳市委副秘书长，市委政研室、市委改革办主任，市政协常委、文史学习委主任。长期研究中国城市理论和社会发展理论，主持深圳重要发展改革项目的制订编制。曾获广东省社会科学优秀成果一等奖。代表著作：《近代上海人社会心态》《深圳之路》《深圳蓝皮书》《深圳改革报告》等。
超宽禁带半导体氧化镓兼具高击穿场强、高电子迁移率与低成本大尺寸熔融衬底，被认为是下一代电力电子器件最有力的竞争者。
The development of highly sensitive and rapid biosensing tools targeted to the highly contagious virus SARS-CoV-2 is critical to tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. Quantum sensors can play an important role， thanks to their superior sensitivity and fast improvements in recent years.
本次分享将首先回顾时序建模的最新科研进展与成果，然后介绍如何将时序建模应用到序列化数据分析中，如:图像与视频的文本描述( captioning )、视频目标跟踪、基于视频的多帧年龄估计等与时序建模密切相关的实际应用。
陶林，精神医学主任医师、深圳市性学会会长、北京大学医学部性学研究中心研究员、中国陶行知研究会青春期教育专委会理事长、中国性学会青少年性教育专委会副会长、中国心理卫生协会性心理健康专委会副主委、《国家生殖健康咨询师职业教程》编委、广东省性学会副会长。
垂直型氮化镓功率器件的应用可以大幅提高功率系统的电压等级、工作频率和温度，减少电能变换过程中的功率损耗，在新一代高压、大电流功率应用场景中具有显著优势。
Large-scale integration of battery energy storage systems (BESS) in distribution networks has the potential to enhance the utilization of photovoltaic (PV) power generation and mitigate the negative effects caused by electric vehicles (EV) fast charging behaviors.
在公元前1050年前后，周人推翻了商王朝统治并控制了现今河南以及陕西的大部分地区。这一新政权为了应对前所未有的庞大疆域，发明了一种独具创意的政治体制，即通过宗族、亲眷、同盟等亲属关系为基础的代理统治。周王任命噩侯镇守王朝骚动的南土。虽然传世文献绝少提及噩侯，但是近年来的考古发掘为我们展示了噩侯的公族墓地以及巧夺天工的青铜礼器。我们将从美术史和考古学的角度检视鲜为人知的噩国悲剧历史，并讨论其与近邻诸侯国以及中央王庭的复杂关系。
Liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) of biomolecules drives the formation of subcellular compartments with distinct physicochemical properties. 
Superconducting qubits provide a promising path toward building large-scale quantum computers. The simple and robust transmon qubit has been the leading platform， achieving multiple milestones.
In the report， he will share his scientific research insights of "fall in love with your own chemistry" and his eight character motto of "love. diligence， hard work. and seriousness".
Archaea are important players in the marine biogeochemical cycles.Besides， Archaea are key to understanding the evolution of life. 
林毅夫教授是北京大学新结构经济学研究院教授、院长，北京大学南南合作与发展学院院长，北京大学国家发展研究院名誉院长。
Abstract: Taming qubits to achieve robust quantum control with unprecedented precision is essential to quantum computation， while this is daunting due to the complex， noisy environment of qubits and unavoidable control imperfections.
光学的基础知识及其技术应用层出不穷，日新月异，为推动人类社会的发展做出了巨大的贡献。单分子水平灵敏探测和传感、纳米及原子尺度显微成像、极宽带激光和光谱检测等为当前光学乃至自然科学的若干重大前沿问题。
The evolution of multiple plant traits is linked to the diverse microbe-rich soil environment.Numerous microorganisms participate in the biogeochemical transformation of soil nutrients， including nitrogen and phosphorus cycling， which are essential for plant productivity. 
Membrane proteins play diverse and critical roles in living organisms， including metabolism， signaling， and transport. In human， membrane proteins represent the direct target for more than 50% approved drugs.
QLED显示技术开发近年来快速发展，并且在未来量产应用的成本、规格等方面体现了诸多的潜在优势。
黄同德，南京理工大学副教授，博士生导师， 2013年博士毕业于香港科技大学电子与计算机工程系，主要研究方向为高速氨化射频器件。
任福君，哈尔滨工业大学博士、清华大学博士后，二级教授、博士生导师、国务院政府特贴获得者。曾任佳木斯大学工学院（原佳木斯工学院）院长、佳木斯大学副校长、黑龙江省科协副主席、中国科普研究所所长、中国科协调研宣传部部长、中国科协办公厅主任、中国科协创新战略研究院院长等职。
This report will introduce the concept and advantages of the high precision seismic exploration technology (high density， broadband and wide azimuth)， systematically analyze and show the main contributions of high density， wide azimuth and wide azimuth to high-precision seismic exploration.
材料与细胞界面的化学因子与物理因子能够调控细胞粘附、迁移、分化等众多细胞功能。这些信号能够影响细胞力学并激活力学信号转导通路，进而改变细胞表现型与功能。
In this seminar， Dr. Zhou will introduce advanced Doherty power amplifier techniques for 5G/6G wireless communication.
mRNA vaccines are a new type of vaccine to protect against infectious diseases.To trigger an immune response， many vaccines put a weakened or inactivated germ into our bodies.
近年来，随着AI技术的发展逐渐加速，物联网已进入AIOT的全新发展阶段， "视觉"作为最重要的底层传感技术之一，正逐步迈入3D时代/自2010年微软推出消费级深度传感器Kinect以来，深度估计技术开始进入普通大众的生活。近年来，深度估计技术在智能手机(从iphone X到iphone 13)、线下刷脸支付(如支付宝、微信)、机器人、无人机等领域获得了巨大的成功，在学术界也是研究的热点。
光滤波器是光通信系统的基本组件，特别是在多路复用中的信道分割和噪音抑制方面具有重要的应用。传统的光学滤波器大部分是基于机械调谐和电调谐方法，其结构较为复杂。随着下一台光通信系统的发展，迫切需要实现集成的可调谐滤波嚣。
学科的交叉与融合是未来技术创新的重要发展方向。微纳电子技术与生命科学的结合，将催生众多的新技术、新工具、新产品、助力生命科学、医学研究及应用。
Silicon-based devices have served the semiconductor industry for more than 60 years. The device performances are approaching the fundamental material limits.
Many complex nonlinear systems have intrinsic structures such as energy dissipation or conservation， and/or positivity/maximum principle. It is desirable， sometimes necessary， to preserve these structures in a numerical scheme.
宋志平，管理工程博士，中国上市公司协会会长、中国企业改革与发展研究会会长。他管担任中国建材集团、中国医药集团董事长。
It is believed that quantum computer can simulate local quantum systems efficiently. Among many simulation techniques，Trotter-Suzuki decomposition is one of the simplest methods and is suitable for nearterm quantum devices.
本报告首先回顾了全驱系统方法的诞生背景，并列举了一系列航天器控制系统的全驱系统模型，然后针对高阶全驱系统模型描述的非线性系统提出了一类最优控制问题，其控制指标为系统基础状态及其相关阶次导数的二次型。
解读百年前绽放在域外图像里的中国植物历史，领略广袤国土上丰饶的生物奇珍。从图像到标本，由早期西方到现代中国，在艺术与科学的交融中走进中国植物的博物之旅！策展人：王钊博士。主办单位：南方科技大学人文科学中心，南方科技大学图书馆。协办单位：深圳市越众文化传播有限公司，四川大学文化科技协同创新研发中心，中国科学院植物研究所华西亚高山植物园，中山市四为书院。
植(作)物应答逆境和环境变化的表观遗传基础是重要的科学问题，也是建立作物多抗育种技术体系的理论基础。/荔校是我国最具岭南特色的水果，结合多种测序技术和组装技术，我们获得了完整的“妃子笑”荔枝基因组。
Vaccines confer protection predominantly by inducing protective antibody responses.However， vaccines do not elicit equal in each individual. 
近年来，高压强极端条件下的富氢化合物成为高温超导体研究的热点目标材料体系。
李佑新，现任湘潭大学马克思主义学院教授，教育部长江学者特聘教授，教育部人文社科重点研究基地湘潭大学毛泽东思想研究中心主任，兼任国务院学位委员会学科评议组成员，国家社会科学基金学科规划评审组专家，教育部高校马克思主义理论类专业教指委委员，全国毛泽东哲学思想研究会副会长等。
单像素成像是一种依次将不同的结构光图案投影照射到目标物体上，通过单像素探测器记录光强度并进行图像计算重建的技术。
This seminar will focus on nonlinear vibrations of shells made of traditional， composite， and soft biological materials.
受电子系副教授王锐邀请，西安雷通科技防灾减灾中心主任汪洋、上海觅熵科技有限公司首席架构师黄卫将于11月26日（星期五）做学术报告，欢迎大家参加。
In 1925， in order to explain the law of hydrogen atomic spectrum， Heisenberg presented the matrix representation of quantum mechanics， which marked the establishment of quantum theory， but also left ther seeds of Einstein's doubts about the theory of quantum mechanics.
激光雷达和深度相机等传感器的快速发展，使得三维点云数据在自动驾驶、机器人、AR/VR等领域得到了广泛的关注。面向点云数据的深度学习研究，也成为了近年来计算机视觉领域的研究热点。
人生有涯，学海无涯，要想让自己有一个充实丰满的人生，我们就要从选定方向开始，用职业生涯规划去开创新的生活。合理的职业生涯规划可以帮助医学生早日走出迷茫，明确发展方向。
Mobile network is evolving from communication-only towards one with joint communication and radio/radar sensing (JCAS， aka， ISAC) capabilities， that we call perceptive mobile network (PMN)./Spectrum sharing enables multiple categories of users to share the same frequency bands and is becoming increasingly important in responding to the growing congestion of spectral resources.
江定航，上海市锦天城(深圳)律师事务所高级合伙人、中共深圳市律师行业委员会副书记、深圳第十届律协副会长，中共深圳市第五、第六、第七次党代会代表，全国优秀律师，深圳市优秀党务工作者、全国优秀党务工作者，深圳两新党建红色讲师团成员，深圳市党建研究会理事。
当感染或疫苗免疫后， T和B淋巴细胞会被激活、增殖并分化为效应细胞。当病原微生物(抗原)被清除后，大多数效应细胞凋亡，只有5-10%的细胞成为抗原特异性的记忆T细胞。
Mammalian epigenomes are mainly shaped by posttranslational modification of chromatin and its three-dimensional organization in nucleus. 
Error-correcting codes were invented to correct errors on noisy communication channels. Quantum error correction (QEC)， however， may have a wider range of uses， including information transmission， quantum simulation/computation， and fault-tolerance.
While the catalog of human cell types and their gene expression profiles is rapidly expanding， our understanding of human cell-type-specific gene function lags behind.
Pathological pain brings both physiological and psychological burden to the patients， it can also significantly impact patients' quality of life.
文博中心（档案校史馆）特邀深圳市档案馆副馆长、中国档案学会档案学基础理论学术委员会委员、广东省档案学会常务理事、广东省科协专家库专家、深圳市特聘档案专家黄俊琳将于11月26日（星期五）10:00作《声像档案的形成与归档》专题讲座。
报告人将基于其参与起草《中华人民共和国学位法(草案)《上海市高等教育促进条例》以及依法治校指标体系研制、高等教育评价立法的相关经验，综合采取法社会学、教育社会学以及教育政策学的方法，聚焦于高校设置许可与标准、治理结构、经费投入与使用、人员编制、学科专业、职称比例、学科评估等具体内容，对地方高等教育的立法和政策制定做一个学理性的报告。
Acidic natural areas， which are characterised by extremely low pH values， are globally represented across continents.
Correlated materials comprise a large part of the innovative landscape due to rich applications and unconventional phases. 
低温制冷技术在日常生活和很多高科技领域不可或缺。从普冷温区到极低温温区，各种不同特点的制冷技术获得应用。
朱军，西南大学教育学硕士，中央党校经济管理专业研究生，文博研究馆员，国务院政府特殊津贴专家，首批重庆英才•名家名师，中国博物馆协会理事，中国中共党史学会理事，中国纪念馆专委会副主任，西南大学兼职硕士研究生导师，重庆大学、常州大学兼职教授，重庆红岩联线文化发展管理中心（重庆红岩革命历史博物馆）党委书记，红岩干部学院院长。
I will， in a way l hope will be of interest also to non-experts， describe some of the most important steps in the development of NanoLund from， initially， 8 people (including PhD-students) to more than 300 researchers， before I handed over the leadership tasks to my successors.
Ca2+/CaM依赖型蛋白激酶(CCaMK)已被显示参与植物激素落酸(ABA)以及水分胁迫的应答反应。/Plants produce a large array of steroid and triterpenoid compounds via isoprenoid pathways.
陈浩，2021年5月起任南方科技大学国际合作部/港澳台办公室常务副部长。2019年1月至2021年4月任西安电子科技大学国际合作与交流部部长/国际交流处处长/港澳台办公室主任。2015年1月至2019年1月在中国驻芝加哥总领馆教育组工作，先后任二秘衔、一秘衔领事。
Neurotransmission， synaptic plasticity and memory formation involve tightly regulated dynamic modulation of neuronal phospholipid membrane fluidity， curvature and surface chemistry in concert with protein/protein and protein/lipid interactions at the pre- and post-synapse in the brain./Large deformation diffeomorphic metric mapping (LDDMM) is one of the state-of-the-art diffeomorphic registration techniques that apply to manifolds of different dimensions， such as landmarks， curves， surfaces， and dense images.
田军，同济大学海洋与地球科学学院教授，首参加IODP 321航次，研究方向是利用深海沉积物开展古海洋学研究。/丁巍伟，自然资源部第二海洋研究所研究员，自然资源部海底科学重点实验室副主任，管参加IODP 349和368航次。
黄维，中国科学院院士、俄罗斯科学院外籍院士、亚太材料科学院院士、东盟工程与技术科学院外籍院士，亚太工程组织联合会主席、中国电子学会副理事长、中国化学会副理事长、中国管理科学学会副会长，美国光学学会会士、英国皇家化学会会士、国际光学工程学会会士，是中国有机光电子、柔性电子学科的奠基人与开拓者，被誉为“柔性电子学之父”。
学科交叉与融合是当今科学发展的趋势。本报告主要介绍微机电系统(MEMS)技术在表界面物理化学方面的交叉研究进展以及未来的发展趋势。
《AI2041：对未来的十大想象》是一部混合了虚构和非虚构的有关人工智能的未来学著作。本书历经两年的创作，从最坚实的技术发展路径，结合全球化视野，探讨科幻现实主义下的AI议题与未来发展路径，并通过与学界、商界、媒体及大众的交流，渐进式地实现科幻对于现实的干涉与重塑。本次讲座将介绍一种以科幻的方式进行科技创新前瞻和原型设计的方法论，并以实际案例探讨未来AI社会的未来趋势和发展路径。
In this talk， I will present our on-going story in trying to understand basic motion properties of molecules in the condensed phase formed by phase separation./Although big data is ubiquitous in data science， one often faces challenges with small data， as the amount of data that can be taken or transmitted is limited by technical or economic constraints. 
孙海英，临沂大学马克思主义学院教授，硕士研究生导师，全国高校思政课名师工作室负责人。主要从事沂蒙文化与沂蒙精神、毛泽东思想和中国特色社会主义理论等课程的教学工作。
传统的处理器芯片面临严峻的挑战，下一代处理器芯片呼之欲出。
恢复/重建组织微环境的抗肿瘤功能是有效的治疗策略，并已取得令人瞩目的效果。但目前的干预靶点/策略主要是针对适应性免疫应答，受益患者仍非常有限。
细胞的位置信息对细胞命运调控机制和细胞谱系发生过程的研究十分重要，为了更好地了解细胞，有必要同时记录其转录异质性和空间坐标。/真核生物DNA经过一系列的高度压缩和折叠最终形成具有复杂结构的染色质。
（一）可复制的沟通谈判术。（二）深度掌握的沟通谈判术。（三）场景活用的沟通谈判术。
Interleukin-33 (IL-33)， an epithelial cytokine of IL-1 family， was originally identified as a trigger of type 2 immune responses， activating T helper 2 (TH2) cells and mast cells in 2005.
Artificial Intelligence technology is developing at amazing high speed， and its applications in certain fields are constantly being updated.
《一千零一夜》的总体框架故事、卡麦尔·扎曼与布杜尔公主的故事以及阿拉丁神灯的故事的主人公身份都是中国人，这几个故事中的中国与中国人形象总体上是积极的和善意的，其背后的原因在于：一、中国与阿拉伯在古代历史上基本没有重大的军事冲突；二、阿拉伯世界距离中国遥远，让阿拉伯人对中国产生一种朦胧美；三、中阿在古代存在一定的交往，特别是汉唐时代有不少的商业交往，这也让部分阿拉伯人了解到中国的物产丰富、经济发达。另外一方面，这些中国形象也在一定程度上反映了阿拉伯人对中国文化的误读与想象，具体表现在对婚礼习俗、宫廷礼仪、帝王专制等方面，这些文化的误读与想象本质上是阿拉伯自我对中国他者的一种投射。
Micro-LED已被业内公认为未来终极显示技术，出众的光电特性包括可无缝拼接优势使其成为100时以上家用显示领域最有优势的显示技术之一，或将重塑LED显示应用的新格局。
多元智能理论是由哈佛大学心理发展学家霍华德·加德纳在1983年提出的，不同的人会有不同的智能组合，这是尊重差异的心理学基础。教育就是把自然人培养成社会人的过程。遗传在人的发展过程中有着重要作用，父母的社会与经济地位在人成长中起着重要作用。家长应注重孩子学习习惯与元认知的培养。行胜于言，家长的一言一行影响着孩子的一举一动。同时，要学会等待，不与孩子较劲，给孩子以必要的帮助。另外，作为家长，对自己的教育行为应有风险评估，并预留一种教育方案不太成功的备择方案。
我们使用面波层析成像技术对扬子克拉通西部二叠纪峨眉山大火成岩省地区的岩石圈进行成像，发现中下地壳和岩石圈地幔中存在一个东北走向、长700余公里、具有高剪切波速(vs)和负的径向各向异性(Vsv>Vsh)的地震异常体。
今年的诺贝尔物理学奖首次授予了“复杂系统”领域，以奖励“对我们理解复杂系统的开创性贡献”的三位科学家。
The advanced sensor system is composed of various hardware circuits.It is principal to achieve fast and accurate measurement. 
Ammonia-oxidizing archaea (AOA) are widespread and abundant in all moderate and oxic environments on Earth.
随着器件小型化的发展，微操作引起人们极大的关注。在微观世界中，如果接触力得不到可靠的检测和有效的控制，微观物体很容易损坏。
利率是使用资金的价格，也是影响金融资源配置的核心变量，但对利率的认识仍然充满分歧。
不依赖药物掌控好睡眠，就是掌控自己的大脑，掌控自己的身体和生活。想知道如何 “我的睡眠我做主"么？
细胞分裂是最基本的生命活动之一。探索细胞分裂机制并寻找能够抑制细胞分裂的药物和技术，是抗肿瘤药物研发的重要方向。
Nucleic acids play important roles in life processes， such as genetic material， gene regulation， signaling， catalysis， and viral infection. 
In this seminar， we will take transcription factor KLF5 and its acetylation at K369 as an example to discuss how we dissect their roles in lineage plasticity in the prostate's postnatal development and cancer progression. 
Tremendous progress has been made in recent years in the understanding of small molecule molecular dynamics processes including photo-dissociation， photo-ionization， as well as inelastic and reactive scattering.
研讨会主要涵盖以下四个方向：1)   量化洪涝灾害风险.2)   洪涝灾害引发的次生灾害的链生及耦合效应（Cascading and Coupling）.3)   洪涝灾害对沿海地区的影响.4)   洪涝灾害公共安全方案.
弗莱指出，文学起源于神话，神话是一切文学的原型。这原理赋予人类文学千百年来所蕴含和呈现的审美魅力。现代科幻激活古代神话。神话是科幻原型，科幻是未来神话，彼此交叉并置，展现从“万物有灵”到“万物有智”的人类认知演进。作为囊括并整合了感性与理性的升华物，人类智能关联“灵性思维”，判断是与不是，该与不该，美和不美。“灵性思维”对应万物相通，体现对生命的反思与敬畏。
Physical exercise promotes new neuron formation in the adult hippocampus and is associated with improvements in learning and memory./ Body temperature homeostasis is critical for survival and requires precise regulation by the nervous system. 
海洋微生物学研究已进入数据科学时代，从海量组学数据中挖掘微生物环境适应与进化的规律，揭示微生物与环境的相互作用关系，是计算海洋微生物学的重要研究方向。/受体激酶FERONIA (FER)在植物界广泛、保守分布。
北太平洋区域广阔，表层水体与次表层和中层水之间的交换，是决定海洋碳收支的重要物理因子。
Bile acids are essential surfactants for solubilizing lipophilic nutrients in mammals and their imbalances contribute to metabolic disorders and cancers. 
中脑多巴胺系统对于调节适应性行为和维持大脑的正常功能至关重要。来自临床前的动物研究和人脑成像的研究均表明，抑郁症和焦虑症与中脑多巴胺能系统有关。
1. 学术英语词汇复杂度研究2. 学术英语短语复杂度研究3. 学术英语句法复杂度研究4. 学术英语情感研究5. 学术英语研究成果在英语学习与教学中的应用
主讲内容简介:1.华南理工大学微电子学院简介2.国内外集成电路行业发展3.无线智能感知芯片及系统研究及发展 
金刚石具有很多优异的半导体性质，如超宽带隙、超高热导率、超高载流子迁移率以及优异的抗辐射能力等，这些性质使得金刚石成为制备高性能半导体光电器件的理想候选材料之一，在紫外探测，粒子探测，高功率、高压、高频电子器件等领域有广泛的应用前景。
本次沙龙我们邀请到南科大高等教育研究中心的两位同事与我们荣誉学会的青年会士座谈。围绕“理工科生的人文社科教育”这一主题，李敏辉和李梦洋博士将从教育研究者的角度分别就“理工科生的创造力与人文社科课程”和“高等教育研究的跨学科性”问题分享其研究与思考。从另一角度，荣誉学会的青年会士们将以教师的身份就相关问题提供他们教学实践中的观察、体会与考量。通过高等教育研究者与人文社科教师之间的对谈，我们希望追问：理工科与人文社科分别如何理解“创造力”？人文社会科学如何培养理工科生的综合能力？高等教育研究如何从理论层面考量理工与人文社科的学科分野？跨学科如何成为可能？与此同时，我们还将邀请到场学生加入我们的对谈，在研究者和教育者之外，提供学习者的第三种视角，分享他们学习人文社科课程的体验和心得，从而形成围绕“理工科生的人文社科”这一主题的不同身份、立场和想法的交流与互鉴。
本报告首先将简要介绍半导体热电材料的基本原理，在此基础上，重点介绍和评述热电材料国内外研发现状及最新进展，最后将对热电材料器件未来的发展趋势作预测和展望。 
2021深圳市艺术与科学论坛将于10月30日在南方科技大学召开。本届论坛以“艺术与科学——多媒体互联”为主题，特邀在科技、艺术、多媒体交互、音乐等领域的专家学者汇聚一堂，围绕数字化时代的多媒体发展、多媒体的艺术与科学交互体验、多媒体的多元应用等方向进行多元交流与探讨。
Software innovations make up a cornerstone of the digital economy. The scope of their patent protection and the social and private value of software patenting are central to recent policy debates in the United States. 
人类对物理世界的感知进入了泛在智能的新阶段，物联网与人工智能技术共同推动人类社会从万物互联走向万物智联。通过分析无线信号在传播过程中的变化，获得信号传播空间(信道)的特性，无线感知可以感知人体行为或者其他静态物体。
臧艺兵教授，厦门市音乐家协会主席。香港中文大学哲学（音乐人类学）博士。中国音乐学院特聘研究员。集美大学教授。厦门市政协 委员。中国传统音乐学会常务理事，中国音乐教育学会常务理事，中央电视台音乐频道特聘专家和策划人。原华中师范大学音乐学院院长。著有《中国音乐史》、《民歌与安魂：武当山民间歌师与社会历史的互动、《作为文化的音乐》、《民间音乐与文化创意产业》等。主编《人性与国情：音乐人类学观察》系列丛书。
蛋白质是生命过程的主要执行者，其精细丰度调控，精准动态修和多层次的相互作用网络，共同支撑起了复杂的生命活动。
光纤通信系统利用光纤作为载体传递光信息的形式，作为现代有线通信的一条重要渠道，对电信通信工业产生了革命性的作用。然而，在信息交互迅猛发展的时代，信息传递速率以每年30-40%的速度增加，这意味着20年内，信息传递的速率将达到千万亿位每秒(petabit/s)。
飞秒激光加工作为微纳制造的一种新方法，具有材料适用性广、分辨率高、热影响小的优势，广泛用于制造多种具有复杂三维结构的光电器件。其原理主要是基于焦点处的超快激光脉冲与写入材料的非线性相互作用，从而引起加工材料在局部产生永久的结构变化，可以在大部分透明材料中产生具有微纳米尺寸的光学结构。
疾病的发生和发展会使人体经历从基因型到表型的一系列变化，这些变化可以通过组学数据和医学图像来体现。因此，包括组学数据和医学图像在内的多种生物医学数据被广泛用于疾病诊断和预后预测。
肺癌是世界上最常见的恶性肿瘤，也是排名第一位的肿瘤死因。随着人类基因组测序的完成，科学家们惊奇地发现人类基因组中能编码蛋白的DNA只占整个基因组的2%，其余90%的DNA大多数仅转录成RNA，而不继续翻译成蛋白质。
万喆，北京师范大学教授、一带一路学院研究员，前中国黄金集团有限公司首席经济学家、前国家发展改革委员会国际合作中心首席经济学家。
水杨酸及植保素在水稻根系发育及抗稻瘟病中的作用机制还不清楚。/介绍陆稻育种路径，控制陆稻米质差的功能基因分析。
南科大校园二期一标段，作为校园最显要的标志性校园组团，其理学院、商学院、公共教学楼以及大草坪广场等项目，从方案到实施设计，背后值得分享的故事。/如何在环境中形成独特的人文场所是工作室设计的出发点，结合现代的语汇，构筑具有地域特色的建筑群落。在建筑的形态、材料和空间等方面展现传统与现代、建筑与自然的对话。
算法领先、理论坚实、应用丰富是推动国家新一代人工智能发展战略实施的三驾马车。我们的研究也从非凸算法设计、优化统计理论、机器学习应用三个角度来探讨人工智能算法。
Hysteresis underlies a large number of phase transitions in solids， giving rise to exotic metastable states that are otherwise inaceessible. 
如何激发学生对实验的兴趣？因材施教，如何引导部分有兴趣、有能力的学生由教学实验向科研实验的方向深入?如何实现物理实验的线上教学? 
表演艺术管理者，可能是一台演出的“操盘手”，可能是一个演出场馆的“当家人”，可能是文化艺术推广者。无论他们从事的是表演艺术管理工作中的哪一环，他们毫无疑问，都是那个致力于连接舞台与观众的那个关键人物。
文博中心（档案校史馆）特邀深圳市档案馆副馆长、中国档案学会档案学基础理论学术委员会委员、广东省档案学会常务理事、广东省科协专家库专家、深圳市特聘档案专家黄俊琳将于10月29日（星期五）10:00作《声像档案的形成与归档》专题讲座。
Archaea are a diverse group of organisms that are phylogenetically distinct to bacteria and eukaryotes based on 165 rRNA sequences. 
张健存博士，国家特聘专家， 1984年毕业于复旦大学，同年考入CGP中美化学研究生项目。在中山大学完成英语培训后，1985年进入匹兹堡大学攻读研究生，从事杂环化学、不对称合成以及自由基化学研究，并于1990年8月获得有机化学博士.
王纲紊乱，礼崩乐坏，大国争霸，兵连祸接，这是春秋时期历史大趋势的鲜明体现。晋、楚、齐、秦四大诸侯国，迭相崛起，逐鹿天下，不断重塑当时的战略格局，并对日后的历史进程产生深远的影响。在这个过程中，尤以晋楚之间的竞逐霸权为中心，无论是秦晋之好的破裂，齐晋恩怨的消解，“尊王攘夷”的喧嚣，还是吴楚战争的上演，吴越两家的死磕，弭兵大会的成局，三家分晋的酝酿，其背后其实都始终笼罩着晋、楚龙头老大之争的阴影。一句话，读懂了晋楚争霸，也就读懂了整个春秋。其中的历史经验，即使在今天，对我们也弥足珍贵，足资启迪！
We find that， on average， workplace injuries in publicly-listed firms are lower than those in comparable private firms. 
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive and life-threatening hematologic malignancy currently lack of effective targeted therapeutics. 
全球环境变化的科学研究，先后获得了诺贝尔化学奖（1995）、和平奖（1997）、经济奖（2018）及物理奖（2021）。这反映出在人类活动影响下，全球环境与物理、化学、及社会经济过程错纵交织的关系。环境学院相关研究团队将深入浅出介绍全球环境变化现况、揭示地球环境系统的复杂性，并解读诺奖得主的突破性贡献。此外，环境学院教师还将分享亲身与这些科学巨人交流的趣闻轶事。欢迎全校师生参加交流！
"超个性化设计"的概念的提出是为了对大规模生产和大众消费作出回应， "超个性化设计"使产品更适合用户特定的风格、形式和行为。
本报告将结合算法、硬件架构、电路等多个角度探讨智能感知专用处理芯片的设计，从而满足感知设备对智能化、实时性、低功耗、小型化的需求。 
机器人辅助手术中触觉感知及交互能力的缺失是制约手术安全，效率的关键技术瓶颈。为此本团队长期致力于研发具有触觉感知交互能力的微创医疗器械及机器人系统，以期让患者受益，为医生提供助力，实现微创手术安全、快速、准确的目标。
王涛，复旦大学历史学博士，教授，中国延安干部学院教学科研部党建教研室主任。主要从事党史党建研究。主持完成国家社科基金项目1项，曾参与国家社科重大项目子课题1项，参与国家社科基金一般项目3项；执笔完成《西北革命根据地简史（送审稿）》、主持“红船精神系列丛书·抗日战争中流砥柱”卷等科研项目撰写工作；完成《延安时期党的建设历史经验》《党性教育课程大纲》等有关部门委托研究任务多项；在《中国经济史研究》《军事历史研究》《党的文献》等期刊发表学术论文数十篇。主要从事干部教育培训工作，承担中国延安干部学院各类主体班次教学任务，多次承担并完成涉港澳培训以及境外交流任务，先后应邀为多家涉外单位、国防科工等单位授课。
准确地描述蛋白质结构和功能是理解生命的重要基础，对生物医学的发展也具有重要意义。近年来实验式蛋白质结构测定技术取得了很大的进展，但这些技术还是低通量、价格高昂，尤其是膜蛋白结构的测定。
Recent advances in stem cell biology have allowed the in vitro growth off 3 dimensional (3D) organoids that recapitulate essential attributes of their counterpart-organs in vivo.
南山博物馆的《“叙”写传奇》（8.4-11.7）展览已经接近尾声。在此次展出的195件叙利亚珍品中，来自马里的两尊苏美尔祈愿人小像和希腊化时代的彩陶瓶吸引了很多观者的注意。小像的身体与姿态具有何种功能与意义？他们放大的双眼传达了怎样的“图像力量”？而陶瓶画作为古希腊图像艺术史的重要组成部分，又如何在发展过程中深受东方艺术的影响，成为东西方文明交融的结晶？本次报告将尝试对上述问题进行探讨，并强调在观展时思考器物原先所处的空间，以及叙利亚所承载的历史记忆和文化基因。
Viral vectors are viruses modified in lab to deliver genetic materials into cells. 
Synaptic vesicle recycling is essential for reliable synaptic transmission and largely determines the capacity of information processing at synapse. 
当凝聚态物理正在波矢空间如火如荼时，也有一些人偶尔去看那些实空间的拓扑结构、特别是铁性(磁性和铁电等)体系中的类拓扑畴结构。
盾构是建造穿越江河、海峡水下隧道的主要工法之一。水下隧道工程技术的现代发展趋势，主要针对隧道大断面、高地下水头和长掘进距离等三大方面的技术挑战。
One essential foundation of loT technology is the development of numerous interrelated loT sensors distributed extensively in our environment. 
 DNA forms conformational states beyond the right-handed double helix/m6A modification is the most abundant internal modification on mRNA.
在当代社会，“族群”可被视为最令人关注，也最让人困惑的现象之一。传统上，族群研究的理论范式可分为“原生论”与“建构论”两个派别，但当代社会的族群现象，已经很难再用这两个范式加以概括。一方面，当代的族群总是处于聚散与流变之中，呈现出非常不稳定的样态；另一方面，族群身份之于当事人，仍旧有着塑造认同、寻求归属的意义。在讲者看来，这与当代社会的个体化进程有着密切联系，亦与族群现象所涉及的多个维度有关。本次讲座将结合经典族群研究案例，以及人类学、社会学、政治学等相关学科对族群问题的论述，阐述对于当代社会中族群现象的理解。
航空航天、新能源装备对结构轻量化设计提出了迫切需求。纤维增强复合材料以其优越的材料和物理性能广泛的应用于此类装备结构。
球形棕囊藻，属于一种有害赤潮种，具有复杂的生活史，当赤潮爆发时，藻细胞可能会吸引特殊的伴生菌。
球形棕囊藻是我国广东沿海重要有害藻华物种。自1997年首次在广东粤东沿海引发藻华之后，球形棕衰藻的系统发生学、生理生态特征及其藻华发生机制等研究广受关注。
通过原创戏剧作品的创作案例分析，分享该类型作品的排演经验。讲述如何从生活中寻找创意点，并对其进行发展，通过：素材搜集、人物发展、结构调整、剧场合成等工作环节，最终将其转化为舞台视听呈现的创作流程。
复杂中空多壳的细胞结构构成丰富多彩的生物世界，实现了物质和能量在自然界的有效循环。
Clinical decision support systems (CDSS) provide advice to physicians that could save patients'lives， but they could also make physicians feel a sense of face loss. 
This talk presents a plasmonic topological metasurface that introduces an additional degree of freedom to address optical phase engineering by exploiting the topological features of non-Hermitian matrices operating near their singular points. 
Bone and joint diseases， such as osteoporosis， rheumatoid arthritis (RA)， and osteosarcoma， are major clinica challenges. /Due to the spectrum crosstalk of dyes， the multicolor fluorescence imaging is limited to 4 colors or 6 colors， which is far less than the types of organelles.
李山博士拥有逾25年的全球金融机构和大型中资银行领导经验。李博士是中国人民政治协商会议第十三届全国委员会委员，同时也是丝路金融公司首席执行官、丝路规划研究中心副理事长、涛石股权投资管理公司董事长兼首席执行官、香港中国金融协会副主席。
将研究工作的结果整理成文稿，并经过同行评审发表在科技期刊上，是科研工作的一个重要的组成部分。针对科学技术研究论文产出的迅速增·长，虽然不断有新的期刊推出，但稿件在投稿过程中所面临的竞争也是前所未有的激烈。
We develop a dynamic model where a CARA principal contracts with a CARA agent to operate a firm. The agent， protected by limited liability， trades privately a market portfolio to hedge market risk in his compensation. 
自然界会产生各种各样具有生物活性的天然产物，叫中一些会损害我们的身体健康，而另一些则可用于治疗各种疾病。/Multicellular organisms are generally associated with communities of symbiotic microorganisms (the microbiome) which could enhance host fitness over ecological and evolutionary timescales. 
白血病发病过程中，正常造血细胞和白血病细胞始终同享一个生长环境，但白血病细胞比正常细胞具有更强的生长优势，因此随着白血病细胞的无限增殖，侵占了正常造血细胞的生存环境，使其变成有利于白血病细胞生存的环境，并进一步抑制了正常造血细胞的生长。
为进一步增强广大师生爱眼护眼意识，提高眼健康知晓度，在2021年世界爱眼日之际，南科大健康校园科普第三期邀请了深圳希玛林顺潮眼科医院，到我校开展“爱眼护眼始于心，科学用眼践于行”的校园科普及义诊活动，欢迎各位老师、同学参加。
生命体初始到结束，一直受到环境直接或者间接的影响。基因并不是人体健康状态的决定因素，还会联系到表观遗传、蛋白组、代谢组与日常暴露。
本课程通过对儿童自信心发展模型的探究和领悟，重新回到生命之初看到儿童的成长和变化，透过生活状态的回顾看到儿童自信心发展过程中出现的行为问题。
忻平，上海大学教授，博士生导师，原上海大学党委副书记兼纪委书记，现任上海市社联副主席、上海市中共党史学会会长兼党工组书记、上海市高校思政课教学改革协作组组长。上海市“党史学习教育宣讲团”成员。长期从事中共党史、近现代上海史、高校思想政治教育等领域的教学和研究。先后主持多项教育部、国家哲学社会科学重点课题和上海市哲学社会科学项目课题；多次担任上海市哲社系列课题首席专家；在《历史研究》《中共党史研究》等刊物发表学术论文百余篇。
历经十年风雨，校园建设日新月异。值此校园二期建设圆满竣工之际，基建办特邀负责校园规划的建筑大师以及各建筑主创设计师重返校园，回顾校园规划及设计思路，讲述建筑背后的故事。
微波致热声成像结合了微波吸收在人体不同组织中的高对比度和所激发超声信号所携带的高分辨率信息，是生物医学成像及检测的一个新兴技术，可用于多种癌症及疾病检测，也可以作为一种监控技术。
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are derived from the naive pluripotent cell population of the preimplantation embryo and are considered to be its in vitro counterpart.
演讲首先从日常语言视角实在论出发，讨论中国人类学的日常语言视角实在论传统。这一传统源自二十个世纪三十年代的“社会学中国化"主张，最近几年以“社会学本土化"为名的争论已经成为中国社会科学(包括社会学、人类学和政治学)领域的一个热点。
本次报告将综述本团队近年来在器官芯片研发方面的若干进展，包括构建的具有自主知识产权的基于双光子/多光子器官芯片快速高精度打印系统，解决了器官芯片跨尺度加工的难题。
经颅磁刺激(TMS)是一种安全、无创的脑刺激技术。重复经颅磁刺激能够诱发神经可塑性变化，因此被广泛应用于精神科和神经科疾病的治疗与干预。
电磁超表面是由亚波长电磁结构单元在表面上排布构成的二维人工电磁结构。该概念近年来已成为微波、太赫兹、光电子领域的最新研究热点。
Jenny Hirst 于 2005 年获得伦敦国王学院应用语言学和英语语言教学硕士学位。 自 2000 年以来，她一直在伦敦教难民，为西班牙的法律、医疗和商业专业人士提供自己的英语语言教学服务，并拥有超过 10 年专门从事 STEM 教育的学术英语教学和设计经验。 她的研究兴趣是心理语言学、社会语言学和跨文化传播。 她会说一口流利的西班牙语，并正在尝试学习中文。
Metagenomic approaches have substantially expanded the known microbial diversity and revised our understanding of evolution of life. 
Orbifold theory studies a vertex operator algebra V under the action of a finite automorphism group G.
The neural basis of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD)， a disabling psychiatric condition with a lifetime prevalence of 2-3%， is uncertain./Zebrafish is highly regenerative and frequently employed to study regulators of the regeneration processes.
“晚清与五四之关系”是近年现代文学研究界的学术热点之一。重读20世纪中国小说，从鲁迅、郁达夫开始，还是从梁启超、李伯元开始，见解有很大区别，本讲座将为你细加分析展开。
量子重正化群(RG)是研究多电子相互作用关联系统的最重要的和准确的方法之一。针对此，我们在自然轨道表示的框架内提出了一个新的概念以使重正化方法推广到一般轨道表示的抽象空间，即自然轨道重正化群(NORG)。
周忠孝，现就职于中国运载火箭技术研究院深圳公司财务总监兼工会主席。爱好摄影，主要从事风光、生态和赛车摄影以及延时摄影等。其摄影作品曾在“新华社”、《深圳交警》、《大众摄影》、《南方都市报》、奥迪《景致》杂志等多个平台展出，并获得国内多个摄影大奖。
赵国庆，北京师范大学教育学部博士、副教授、硕士生导师，英文项目博士生导师，数字学习与教育公共服务教育部工程研究中心副主任，北京师范大学教育学部思维训练研究中心副主任，中国教育科学研究院海淀STEM教育协同创新中心特聘专家。
The physical world is governed by physical laws， such as Newton's Law of Motion， Theorem of Linear and Angular Momentum， the Lagrangian Equation， and the Kirchhoff's Law of Voltage and Current. 
杜玉涛，党的十九大代表。现任华大集团党委书记、华大基因常务副总裁，兼任中国科学院大学研究员，研究生导师，主要从事生命科学领域相关研究，共主持和参与国家、省市科技项目17项，获得专利21项。在国际杂志发表高水平科研论文34篇，一作或通讯作者论文26篇。2020年疫情爆发以来，参与一线抗疫工作，被任命为河北“火眼”实验室总指挥，以“硬核”科技助力抗疫。曾获全国三八红旗手、全国五一巾帼标兵、广东省劳动模范、深圳市道德模范等荣誉。
近年来，随着植物生理学家对光合及蒸腾过程中碳、氧稳定同位素分馆机制认识的深化，依托植物生理过程关键组分如C02， H20的碳或氧同位素信号进行水分利用效率评估、叶肉细胞导度(gm)测量及蒸散发拆分的理论和应用研究正在蓬勃兴起。
Electrochemical devices that either generate electrical energy via chemical reactions or trigger reactions with electricity have been explored for a variety of apolications.
我国海岸线长度达1.8万公里，在沿海和岛屿需要进行大量的基础设施建设，超高性能混凝土（UHPC)具有非常高的强度和致密的结构及良好的韧性，非常适合海洋环境的应用，利用海水海砂作来制备UHPC，不仅能够节约淡水和河砂等自然资源，还能够大大降低原材料的运输成本、提高建设效率。
受我系孟庆虎院士邀请，国内6位专家将于9月28日上午做学术报告，欢迎广大师生参加。
外科手术正从开放式手术向机器人辅助微创手术的方向发展。与传统手术相比，机器人辅助微创手术无疑是革命性的进步，具有出血少、术后疼痛轻、恢复快、疤痕细微或无疤痕等特点。
古代典籍是传统文化最重要的载体。古籍的出现与造纸术和印刷术的发展密不可分。雕版的发明与活字印刷术的产生，使古籍的大规模出现成为可能，也使古代学科的发展日趋完善。古籍的版式、刊刻、流传与收藏，涉及到中国古代特有的出版文化、避讳文化和印章文化。
Marine plankton play important role in ocean productivity and carbon cycling， and are sensitive to anthropogenic impacts ranging from coastal eutrophication to ocean acidification and global climate change. 
绿色催化与合成是当前研究的热点。将多能化学之结构，结合创新的合成方法，高效实现由单一结构到多样化合成。在过渡金属如铜(Cu)、铑(Rh)、锰(Mn)和钯(Pd)等催化下，通过不同的反应，可实现多类复杂分子结构的快速合成，并实现化学、区域和立体选择性的高效控制，为药物化学和材料科学提供便捷的合成手段。
随着摩尔定律发展趋缓而应用需求急剧扩张的集成电路发展趋势，图灵奖得主Hennessey and Patterson预见芯片架构创新将迎来新黄金时代。
在技术不断发展的当今，产品的交互形式愈发细腻和丰富。随着人口红利的消失，产品和服务更迫切地需要提升体验的品质和细节，方式才能脱引而出。但许多设计师在设计产品的交互时，往往照搬其他场景中已有的交互形式。对交互有创新的想法时，往往又苦于难以表述且没有参考案例，以致于让一些前端程序员发出“别解释了，直接说你想抄哪个产品”的感叹。如果我们深入理解交互细节背后的规律，不仅能够让团队成员对设计方案有着统一的认知，提升沟通和迭代的效率；而且还能更有针对性地改善和提出交互创新，在产品中创造更多的标志性时刻。
Topology is a mathematical concept， which has recently been combined with photonics and acoustics， giving birth to the emerging research fields of topological photonics and topological acousties. 
博士，副教授，硕士生导师，广东工业大学青年百人引进人才，主要从事仿人机器人、柔顺关节机器人，智能人机交互方向的研究。
一众知名作家、编剧作客南科大讲堂，与南科师生面对面交流。电视剧《潜伏》原著作者龙一、电影《悬崖之上》编剧全勇先将现场分享红色谍战题材的创作故事和心路历程。该主题沙龙是南方科技大学党史学习教育系列主题活动之一。
苟德明教授长期致力于肺动脉高压的发病机制、靶向治疗和早期诊断生物标志物研究，发明了国际领先的miRNA检测技术S-Poly(T)Plus，并进入产业化推广阶段。
本讲座分印度概况与中印关系两个部分。在印度概况中，将主要介绍印度的历史、文化、地理特征和政治经济形态。在中印关系部分中，将主要介绍中印关系的渊源、根源和现状。
The evolutionary relationships between Eukaryotes and Archaea have become a hot topic with several studies proposing Eukaryotes are not a separate domain but rather emerged from within the Archaea. 
锂金属在负极上的沉积/剥离是各类二次锂电池的基础。到达负极的锂离子会在电子导体表面还原沉积为金属锂，或通过与电化学活性材料反应(嵌入、转换、合金化)被储存起来。
鄂鹤年，加拿大籍，分别从中国、英国和加拿大高校各获得硕士学位，长期从事高等教育工作，有丰富的高校图书馆创建经历，学术建树主要集中在远程教育研究和高校图书馆研究两个领域，发表有关领域专著、译著和文章。自2016年8月下旬起，受聘南方科技大学，任职图书馆馆长。在任职期间，将自己对一流高校图书馆的认知和标准落实在具体工作中，为南科大图书馆迅速成长为一流研究型高校图书馆做出重要贡献，典型标志是2019年底南科大图书馆成为中国内地第十家PRRLA（环太平洋研究型图书馆联盟）成员馆。
We employ the essential emergent sign structure in the study of doped Mott insulators. With the help of variational wave functions that satisfy.With the help of variational wave functions that satisfy the phase-string sign structure， we systematically investigate the single-hole and two-hole doped Mott insulators in t-J model. 
宋锡滨，教授级高工，享受国务院特殊津贴专家、国家制造业转型升级基金委员、泰山产业领军人才、山东省“十强”产业智库专家。
The endomembrane system in plant cells shares many common features with other eukaryotic cells，yet it has evolved many plant-specific properties via multiple genomic duplications， with genes evolving novel functions via functional differentiation.
真核生物的细胞分化及个体发育在分子水平不仅取决于部分基因的特异表达，也依赖于特定基因的有效沉默，既兼性异染色质的建立。
众多合金材料，包括钛基合金、镍基合金、锆基合金和锡基合金等，在国防和民用领域有着广泛的关键性工程应用。而上述材料通常在多物理场的耦合交互载荷作用下，发生微观尺度的失效，最终导致零件乃至整个设备的失效。
卢洪洲，主任医师、二级教授、内科学博士、留美博士后;内科学博士生导师、护理学博士生导师、公共卫生管理博士生导师、公共卫生法律硕士生导师;博士后流动站站长。曾任上海市(复旦大学附属)公共卫生临床中心党委书记、复旦大学附属华山医院院长助理。现任深圳市第三人民医院(南方科技大学第二附属医院)院长、党委副书记。
My goal is to discover the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which protein aggregates contribute to neurodegeneration and to harness these mechanisms to devise novel therapeutic strategies. 
齐德学，研究员，博士研究生导师，中共中央政治局集体学习授课专家。曾任军事科学院军事历史研究部副部长、战略研究部副部长，少将军衔。曾为北京市政协委员、中国军事科学学会军事历史分会第一任会长。1968年2月参加中国人民解放军，空军飞行学员，全国第一届工农兵大学生，长期在军事科学院从事军事理论研究工作。参加编写、主编和自著军事历史和军事理论专著20余部（本），代表作有主编的《抗美援朝战争史》、《中国人民解放军军史》第四卷等，是国内有影响的军事历史研究专家，尤其对抗美援朝战争史的研究。
受我系段广仁院士邀请，国内自动控制领域三位著名学者将于9月24日下午在我校工学院南楼812会议室做学术报告，欢迎广大师生参加。
T cell receptor is one of the most complicated signaling machinery that contains an antigen recognition subunit TCR and three signaling subunits CD3 ， Cd3 and Cd3.
历经十年风雨，校园建设日新月异。值此校园二期建设圆满竣工之际，基建办特邀负责校园规划的建筑大师以及各建筑主创设计师重返校园，回顾校园规划及设计思路，讲述建筑背后的故事。
报告主要分为两个部分。第一部分是简单介绍一下微结构光子晶体光纤与德国马普光学所Russell学部在光子晶体光纤的几个最新研究进展。第二部分将介绍一下我工作过的Russell学部超快光纤激光小组，在锁模光纤激光器、孤子动力学以及非线性光纤光学方向上的近期研究工作。
回顾“两弹一星”事业的历史轨迹与重大历史事件，解读“两弹一星”业绩对于新中国发展建设的重要意义，阐释“两弹一星”精神的本质特征与时代价值。
戏剧艺术是当今世界通行的艺术形式，随着人类社会的科技和人文发展，已经成为人类不可或缺的艺术门类。发轫于2500年前古希腊的诸神祭奠，无论是剧作、表演、组织能力和参与状况，古希腊的戏剧节在甫一出现的公元前五世纪就已经达到了臻于完善的艺术巅峰。本讲将在讲座时限内管窥回顾当年风貌，再现古希腊戏剧盛典盛况。
Digital holographic imaging has the characteristics of fast and flexible with simple set up， and it can quantitatively obtain the intensity and phase of objects， so it has high practical value for application.
Ptychography， as a computational imaging technique， is widely used for quantitative phase-contrast imaqing in optical and X-ray microscopy.However， due to the technical challenges in data acquisition， it is not well recognized in electron microscopy community. 
单结钙钛矿太阳能电池的效率快速提高到认证的25.5%。叠层结构被认为是打破Shockley-Queisser单结理论极限效率的行之有效方法。由于低温制备、潜在的低成本、柔性等优点，钙钛矿基叠层太阳能电池的研究极具吸引力。
近年来，硅基光子学取得的一系列突破性进展，硅基光子学开始逐步走向实用。硅光子器件正进入集成化、低成本化的发展阶段。本报告将介绍课题组在硅光子器件方面的最新进展，如多维复用器、偏振处理器件、多模器件及其应用等。
美学的讨论，可从一个素朴的思考开始，即美是在心，还是在物，还是在心物之间。这种思考到了20世纪50年代的中国，形成了美学上的“四大派”。在论争的过程中，人们理清了思路，看到了这个问题的复杂性。到了80年代以后的中国，出现了各种新的流派，超越了“一个主体面对一个对象”的思路。这时，由于一些科学方法的介入，出现了新的三分，即心、物、符号。将这三者统一起来的，是人的活动。
花期调控植物最重要的生命调控过程之一，是否成功开花决定着植物是否能够通过有性生殖产生后代。
Plants produce structurally diverse specialized metabolites that fulfill vastly different biological roles. These small molecules are important signals mediating the interactions between plants and the environment in a spatial-temporal manner.
Unravelling competing orders emergent in doped Mott insulators and their interplay with unconventional superconductivity is one of the major challenges in condensed matter physics.
张景宽，中共遵义市委党校、遵义干部学院党史党建教研部原主任。从教37年，长期从事中共党史，党的建设等学科的教学和科研工作。先后在省级以上刊物发表文章40余篇，曾独立主持完成省哲学社会科学规划课题和市级课题4个，参与省级市级课题6个，参编专著3部。
唐博，计算机系助理教授， 2020年南方科技大学年度青年教授奖，2019年南方科技大学优秀教学奖获得者。
Optical neural networks (ONNs) emerge as a promising type of machine learning hardware capable of energy-efficient parallel computation. 
超表面是由亚波长人工电磁结构单元构成的阵列，通过调整单元结构参数和元器件状态可以改变电磁场的幅度、相位、极化和频谱特征。信息超表面运用阵列单元的空间和时间编码处理和传递信息，是新体制无线通信的关键技术，近年来在科学和工程领域吸引了极大关注。
Mitochondria are central to cell metabolism by coordinating multiple catabolic and anabolic pathways and coupling the tricarboxylic acid cycle with ATP I production.
此次新冠疫情中，诊断的重要性得到了广泛的认识。中央积极推动传染病诊断工作，社会和人民也对传染病的诊断表现出前所未有的关注。
近些年，仿生驱动肌肉纤维作为一类新型的智能材料备受关注。它可以输出数十倍于生物肌肉的能量/功率密度，在多个领域具有重要的应用前景。
蠕虫型移动机器人在最近几年取得了长足的发展，这是仿生学、超材料和动力学融合的成果。本次报告将重点介绍蠕虫型移动机器人“结构-驱动-环境-功能"一体化设计和共融动力学。
历经十年风雨，校园建设日新月异。值此校园二期建设圆满竣工之际，基建办特邀负责校园规划的建筑大师以及各建筑主创设计师重返校园，回顾校园规划及设计思路，讲述建筑背后的故事。
金属卤化物钙钛矿材料光电性能优异，具有禁带宽度可调、缺陷容忍度高、载流子扩散长度大、易制备等优点，近年来得到学术界和光电行业的极大关注，基于钙钛矿材料探测器亦成为近年来光电器件领域的研究热点。
随着城市人口增多，城市日益成为经济体发展的重要经济驱动力，我们不仅需要更加关注城市的生活质量，同时也要关注城市在与自然共存中的角色。本次演讲将回顾城市发展历程，探讨自然-城市耦合系统中对城市作为复杂适应系统的新认识，并阐述这将如何启发城市设计。
Cells communicate with each other through secreting and releasing proteins and vesicles. Many cells can migrate.
Rydberg atoms are extremely sensitive to electric fields in the range from static (DC) to terahertz frequencies. 
Selling opaque products has become popular on e-commerce platforms where the hidden attribute is often color or style， thanks to its obvious advantage in risk pooling the demand.
A risk analyst assesses potential financial losses based on multiple sources of information. In particular， the assessment does not only depend on the loss random variable， but also various economic scenarios. 
Many committees---juries， political task forces， etc.--spend time gathering costly information before reaching a decision. We report results from lab experiments focused on such information-collection processes.
Motivated by the increasing demand of high-performance communication systems-on chip， for which frequency synthesizer plays one of the most critical role， this presentation introduces several design techniques to improve the performance of frequency synthesizers in terms of size， phase noise， frequency， and power.
A grand challenge with great opportunities is to develop a coherent framework that enables blending conservation laws， physical principles， and/or phenomenological behaviors expressed by differential equations with the vast data sets available in many fields of engineering， science， and technology. 
Laser-assisted advanced manufacturing is a very complicated process that involves conjugated physical phenomena， including ultrafast and extremely confined photon absorption and energy transport， phase change and structural evolution. 
小RNA，包括miRNA和siRNA， 对于植物的生长发育和抗性至关重要\The broad application of single-cell RNA profiling in plants has been hindered by the prerequisite of protoplasting that requires digesting the cell walls from different types of plant tissues.
王凭慧，南方科技大学商学院与创新创业学院联合党委书记，创新创业学院研究教授，博士生导师。
报告基于政策密集出台的背景，从宏观政策篇-导师政策篇两部分解读研究生教育最新政策。报告结合其本人主持的全国硕士研究生学习与发展调查课题研究成果，以及新时代对研究生导师提出的要求，对导师角色做深入挖掘，阐述如何有效提高研究生培养质量。 
院校研究是对高等教育组织或大学的研究。其宗旨是为高等学校提供有益的信息咨询，以改善学校的管理，为高校政策的制定出谋划策。
讲座将从国际组织需要什么人才引入话题，以联合国教科文组织为例，讲述国际组织分类和国际职员类别，政府间国际组织结构和工作人员职类；分析中国参与国际组织面临的困难和挑战；介绍如何培养国际组织人才、如何向联合国机构推送人才以及国际组织人才应该具备的基本素质和能力。
Accumulation of the primarily nuclear TAR DNA binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) protein in the cytoplasm of neurons is characteristic of the neurodegenerative diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease (ALS/MND) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD).\Activation of EphA4/Ephrin exacerbates disruption of the blood‑brain barrier (BBB) following cerebral ischemic/reperfusion (I/R) injury. 
孙宝根，中国共产党革命精神与文化资源研究中心嘉兴学院基地（红船精神研究中心）教授、中共创建史研究所所长、浙江省党史学习教育专家宣讲团成员，苏州大学社会学院博士，南京大学历史系博士后。先后发表学术论文30余篇；出版学术专著三部，主持并完成两项国家社科基金项目和多项省部级社科基金项目。
主讲人:赵永金
This paper explores howconsumers detect real and fake reviews in online word-of-mouth. Drawing on the truth-default theory that emerged from the lie detection literature in the recent decade， we propose that consumers have a general tendency to believe a review to be true more than fake (i.e.， the truth bias)， and that this tendency is greater for negative reviews than positive reviews.
We study the long run effects of immigration on US political ideology. We establish a new result: historical European immigration is associated with stronger preferences for redistribution and a more liberal ideology among Americans today.
Ca2+-dependent neurotransmitter release requires synaptotagmins as Ca2+ sensors to trigger synaptic vesicle (SV) exocytosis through binding of their tandem C2 domains (C2A and C2B) to Ca2+. We have previously demonstrated that SNT-1， a mouse synaptotagmin-1 (Syt1) homolog， functions as the fast Ca2+ sensor in C. elegans./Intracellular cargo trafficking plays fundamental roles in normal cellular functions. Especially in neurons， the largely amplified trafficking is strictly regulated to ensure accurate positioning of diverse cargoes at proper locations. 
This paper studies two fundamental questions regarding probabilistic selling in a vertical market: when is probabilistic selling profitable and how to designit optimally? For the first question， we identify an important but overlooked economic mechanism driving probabilistic selling in vertical markets: convexity of consumer preferences. 
从能源危机和双碳战略引入话题，讲述人类对未来战略能源聚变"人造太阳”梦想追求和所做的努力。托卡马克的原理和意义、聚变研究的挑战和前沿。
Energy Harvesting is crucial to the development of miniaturized implants. Due to the highly compactness， solar energy harvesting using existing on-chip photodiodes has been recently demonstrated as a viable solution for subdermal implant applications in distance less than 1cm.
为了更好的理解自然，科学家们会从不同的角度看待世界并根据探究的层次构建对应的研究框架，例如研究物体的宏观科学和研究分子的微观科学。在此存在一种哲学联系，即还原论猜想，假设前者（即较大的物体）可被化解、拆解为后者（即更简单的分子）。还原论方法在过去数十年取得了巨大的成功，但并不总是适用。
China allows local governments to issue real municipal bonds since 2014. However， many of the municipal bonds were issued with a yield equal to or even lower than that of treasury bonds， showing an obvious overpricing. 
陈捷凯研究员的主要研究方向是细胞命运决定与表观遗传调控，运用干细胞重编程和分化模型研究细胞命运调控理论，发展研究细胞谱系变化过程的单细胞测序算法。
此次4on4沙龙是人文社科荣誉学会本学期的第一次活动。我们希望借此机会向同学们集中介绍我们将要开设的人文社科选修课，为大家提供更加全面具体的课程信息，以辅助同学们选择自己感兴趣的课程。
转录是中心法则的关键环节，利用DNA为模板产生RNA用于蛋白质合成。从简单多细胞生物到人，转录调控是基因差异性表达和核心，决定了几乎所有细胞层面的生命过程和发育，分化，衰老等组织和个体层面的生命活动。
在线客户评论对产品创新的重要性已经在之前的文献中得到了充分的认识。挖掘在线评论已经得到了广泛的关注和努力。大多数现有的关于挖掘在线评论的研究集中在诸如评论对销售的影响、评论的有用性以及顾客对评论的参与等问题上。然而，很少有研究试图从在线评论中识别和提取产品的创新理念。
Physically， a fully actuated system is regarded to be a second-order mechanical system， which has a control actuator at each freedom. For such a system， a controller can be easily designed to cancel the nonlinearities in the system and thus a constant linear closed-loop system is resulted in.
Sparsity based regularization methods for image restoration assume that the underlying image has a good sparse approximation under a certain system.Such a system can be a basis， a frame， or a general over-complete dictionary.
Widespread applications and commercial success of GHz and THz electronic and photonic devices and systems including RF， microwaves and millimeter-waves are closely related to their manufacturing cost and antenna-circuit integration.
Improving control over physical qubits is a crucial component of quantum computing research. We report our recent flaxonium qubit with coherence time reaching T2*= 1.48±0.13 ms， which exceeds the state of the art value by an order of magnitude.
In this talk， I will briefly review therecent progress on quantum computing and networking， with a focus oni its physical implementation and potential applications.
This talk presents an integrated piezoelectric energy harvesting interface without external inductors. Instead of relying on bulky external inductors with high quality factor as in the conventional parallelsynchronized-switch harvesting on-inductor (P-SSHI) approach， this work proposes a flipping-capacitor rectifier (FCR) topology to achieve voltage inversion of the piezoelectric energy harvester through a reconfigurable capacitor array.
近年来，随着二维材料的兴起，飞秒超快激光技术的成熟、微纳加工技术的不断突破，范德瓦尔斯半导体材料(过渡金属硫族化合物和III-VI族半导体等)引起了人们极大的关注，其新颖的物理性质也逐渐被人们所探究，寄希望于用在新一代超快电子、光电和自旋器件中。
In the first half of the talk， we will discuss our recent study that tested the effects of Mandarin tone recognition training with amplitude envelope enhancement on tone recognition and cue weighting with a cochlear implant (CI) simulation. 
Supervised learning， also known as supervised machine learning， is a subcategory of machine learning and artificial intelligence. It is defined by its use of labeled datasets to train algorithms in order to classify data or predict outcomes accurately.
主要介绍未来显示技术中的两个主流方向即印刷OLED/QLED和MicroLED技术现状及其发展，重点论述这两个显示技术仍然需要攻克的科学、技术和工程问题及可能路径。
Embryogenesis is an intricate developmental program， and a key part is the reconfiguring of DNA and chromatin inside the nucleus./Fluorescence microscopy has become the most widely used technique in cellular biology for noninvasive， time-resolved imaging with high molecular specificity. 
医工结合即医学与工程技术的结合，强调应用工程手段解决临床实际问题。这既是生物医学工程教学改革的思路，也是重要的科研思路和人才培养思路。
Present in all kingdoms of life， ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters form a large superfamily of integral membrane proteins. These proteins harness the energy of ATP binding and hydrolysis to translocate a multitude of chemically diverse substrates across cellular membranes.
This presentation focuses on our research work on developing tactile sensors and dry adhesion skins for robotic hands with dexterous and versatile capability for grasping and adaptive manipulation. 
In this presentation， the development and routes of bipedal robots will be introduced. The technology and features of existing bipedal robots will be discussed in relation to the presenter's own research work， while the research and methods of Honda Giken in bipedal walking will be highlighted. 
我们生活的地球，是宇宙中一个独特的星球。在漫长的地质历史中，它时而冷若冰霜，时而热如炼狱。是什么力量如此巨大，一直推动着地球从诞生开始就无休止地不断演化，留下了一系列至今未解的地质之谜。 
第三代半导体是十四五规划的重点，高频、高效、大功率射频氮化镓更是5G和国防科技“卡脖子”技术。5c射频氮化镓器件在未来5年具有广阔的市场前景，且其成本占比达基站总成本的30%，每年使用量高达数千万颗，影响着整个5G基站的产业应用，本次报告就国内5G射频氮化镓的产业应用与挑战进行分享和探讨。 
中、远红外与太赫兹波段在传感、成像、自由空间光通信等领域有重要应用。基于带间激发的半导体探测器具有室温噪声和暗电流大、截止工作波长短等限制。
Hawkes processes have been widely used in many areas， but their probability properties such as closed-forms for moments can be quite difficult. In the present talk， some simple introduction to Hawkes processes is given first， then the approaches to obtain moments of linear Hawkes processes and/or the intensity of a mumber of marked linear Hawkes processes are presented.
讲座将从产业研究的视角，对中美在产业规模、产业结构、产业绩效、产业集中度、产业领军企业等方面的对比进行介绍。提取GICS-WIND分类下中美上市公司一级到四级产业的13类、86组、6318个数据，结合市值、盈亏面、市盈率、销售利润率、净资产收益率、产业集中度等数据指标，剖析中国产业发展过程中的机遇与挑战，提出中国产业在政策导向、资源配置、区域规划、全球布局等方面的建议与意见。
元器件供应链是集成电路为主的半导体产业链的传导枢纽。没有疫情，美国也会"卡脖子";因为疫情，全球化转型，各国纷纷将供应链作为国家战略基础。国家十四五规划，首次将"提升产业链供应链现代化水平"，作为提高"核心竞争力"的目标.
Although X-ray scattering， including X-ray diffraction， is a routime characterization method it is an jumportant approach to study the crystal structure and the associated chemical and physical properties of a material. As driven by the aim to understand the fundamentals in real time scale during the reaction， the operando approach combining th use of reaction cells and the X-ray scattering has pained the attention greatly.
Non-convex optimization is a ubiquitous tool in scientific and engineering research. For many important problems， simple non-convex optimization algorithms often provide good solutions efficiently and effectively， despite possible local minima. One way to explain the success of these algorithms is through the global landscape analysis. In this talk， we present some results along with this direction for phase retrieval.
Acoustic wave resonators are very sensitive to the adsorption of external mass on their surfaces. which makes them promising for molecular sensing. However， they face significant challenges including poor selectivity as gas sensors and strong in-liquid attenuation as biosensors. This talk will introduce novel designs for addressing the limitations of acoustic-resonator-based molecular sensors. The first part of the talk will focus on solving the poor selectivity issue of conventiona gas sensors by exploiting dual transduction mechanisms based on film bulk acoustic wave resonator (FBAR) and surface acoustic wave (SAW) resonators. 
超声影像正成为临床所需的全科式检查手段。然而，受限于成像质量、扫查范围、海量数据、用户差异等问题，临床亟需有效的方式以提升超声检查的成像质量、同质化水平以及诊断准确性，并进一步创造新的诊断方法和指标。人工智能技术为超声影像所面临的上述问题提供了新的解决方案。
设计智造学院，南科大专注新工科教育的主要平台之一。你也许早已看过学院的招生简章，了解学院的研究生课程设置、教育模式，但是我猜你心里一定还有不少问题，想要找到答案。这也许是你和SDIM的第一次见面，我们期待着与你线上畅聊！
中子具有高灵敏性和强穿透性等诸多特性，因此是研究能源材料微观结构和物理性质的独特探针。利用中子散射方法并依托国内外多个中子源大科学装置，我们对一系列锂离子电池电极材料的结构缺陷和结构演变进行了精确表征。基于离位和原位中子散射实验结果，揭示了几种过渡金属氧化物正极材料体系的微结构在不同材料合成工艺以及不同充放电状态条件下的形成和变化规律。
光通信技术在过去的20多年中得到了快速的发展。如何进一步提高相关的通信及网络的容量及效率来满足未来的需求将是我们的重大挑战。在此报告中，我将讨论目前的一些技术发展，并和大家一起分享对未来器件，系统及网络技术发展的展望。
在中国，阿尔茨海默病患者数量已达600多万，且起病隐匿，临床症状不明显，早期诊断困难。轻度认知障碍(MCI)作为其前驱期，介于正常衰老和阿尔兹海默症间的过渡状态，早期筛查和诊断对于疾病的控制和缓解有着巨大的帮助。
1.2021年广东高校科技成果转化路演大赛宣讲;2.佛山市科技成果转化政策解读(获奖项目可获125万) ;3，高校科技成果转化典型项目经验交流;4.线上互动答疑; 
近十年来，越来越多的行业开始经历深度的数字化变革，数字行业也不断进发创新，各种技术升级和迭代层出不穷，数据在当前的经济交互中已然成为关键的生产要素，发挥着越来越大的价值.而让数据发挥价值的背后英掉，是示载着算法、算力和数据存储等关键功能的芯片。人类社会在一块块精密芯片的驱动下迈进了万物互联的数字时代，集成电路产业也因此欣欣向荣，进入了“大爆炸”式的发展阶段。
lonic-electronic coupling across the entire volume of conjugated polymer films endows organic electrochemical transistors (OECTs) with high transconductance and low operating voltage. OECTs are highly attractive for applications ranging from circuit elements， neuromorphic devices to transducers for biological sensing.
数据科学在抗击新冠中的应用，特别是强调，如何用传染病模型和機器学习结合来動态监控傳染病的发展和防控措施的效果。
吴以环，管理学博士，高级经济师。曾任深圳市副市长，现任全国政协委员深圳市政协副主席，民盟广东省委会副主委、深圳市委会主委，市红十字会会长。
This lecture focuses on the communication process and the challenges that can be experienced when communicating with people from different cultural backgrounds.
1921年7月，中国共产党于上海成立。1922年2月，江西萍乡安源煤矿诞生了由产业工人组成的中国第一个党支部。1927年9月，安源煤矿工人武装起来，成为秋收起义的中坚力量。唐际根教授祖籍江西萍乡，其曾祖父是当年安源大罢工和秋收起义的参加者。安源路矿工人运动纪念馆的展厅内，摆放着唐际根祖母当年捐赠的大罢工文物。唐际根教授将以其特殊经历，讲述他作为革命后人所知道的中国共产党早年的艰难岁月。
The first Centre for Neuroscience and Neural Engineering Virtual Symposium will highlight QBl's and SUSTech's collaborative research themes with a focus on synapse' biology and neuronal responses in health and disease. 
激光雷达具有主动探测和距离分辨等特点，具有信噪比高、全天时工作、剖面探测等优势，应用较广。团队在激光雷达方面的工作主要围绕高精度颗粒物探测激光雷达开展。基于高光谱分辨率激光雷达(HSRL)技术，研制了地基多波长多视场HSRL系统，可以对大气气溶胶及云进行高精度遥测，与国际著名拉曼激光雷达进行对比，结果表明两台激光雷达夜间低照度探测数据符合较好，但HSRL白天信噪比优势明显;研制了船载HSRL系统，并在东海及南海进行了海试实验，获得了大量浮游植物层等信息，探测结果与原位仪器符合较好。
杨明俊， 2006年获中国科学技术大学化学物理系学士， 2012年获中国科学院大连化学物理研究所(中国科学院研究生院)化学物理专业博士， 2010年香港大学化学系助理研究员(research assistant)以及2011-2013年香港大学化学系副研究员(research associate)， 2013-2016年美国马里兰大学药学院博士后，2016年加入深圳晶泰科技有限公司， 2016年入选深圳市海外高层次人才孔雀计划C类， 2018年入选广东省珠江人才计划，现任晶泰科技公司高级总监以及首席研究科学家。
The number of protein coding genes in human genome is much less than what people expected from human proteome， suggesting additional regulatory pathways at the RNA level may play a role to increase the coding complexity. Recently we found that many human circRNAs can function as mRNA template to direct protein translation. These circRNAs can only be translated in a cap-independent fashion， often producing isoforms that are partially overlapped with the canorical protein produced from linear mRNAs.
温书豪博士，晶泰科技联合创始人兼董事长，浙江大学兼职教授。他在中国科学院、美国加州大学、麻省理工学院有11年的学习、研究和工作经验，在计算物理、量子化学等领域有丰富的研究经验与理论建树，累计发表论文36篇，参与申请公司核心发明专利48项， PCT专利42项，美国专利11项。由他带领研发的预测算法可以实现对复杂分子的快速、准确预测，为该领域带来突破性的技术进展。
光学相干断层成像(Optical Coherence Tomography， OCT)技术是近年来发展起来的一种高分辨率血管内影像学技术;其利用近红外光源，可检查生物组织微米级结构，有“活体显微镜"之称。OCT技术于2001年在美国开始发展，至目前在欧洲和日本已积累了不少有价值的资料。我国从2008年起也陆续在不少医院开展。
随着基因组学和代谢组学的发展，上世纪末期以来，人们对心血管疾病的概念发生了重大变化。机体代谢改变导致的心血管稳态失衡是心血管疾病发生发展的基础。心血管组织代謝重塑和代谢重编程决定了慢性心血管疾病的预后和转归。物质代谢和能量代谢过程的中间(和或终未)产物，作为生物活性小分子，是机体稳态调节的重要体系。 
Prof. Helen Spencer-Oatey will deliver the seminar online， examining together with us how our membership in a cultural group affects perceptions of what is polite or impolite， as well as how it affects how we judge others， and they judge us， based on these cultural factors. The international nature of the SUSTech campus makes this an ideal topic for exploration for everyone in our community.
气体传感器在环境监测、工业生产、国防安防和智能家居等领域具有广泛的应用。随着人工智能和物联网等应用的兴起对气体传感器的尺寸、功耗和灵敏度等性能提出了新的要求。基于MEMS技术的气体传感器，具有小体积、低功耗、高灵敏和快响应等特点，越来越引起业界的关注。本报告将介绍基于微型加热器的MEMS气体传感器的应用研究。 
开放获取是基于互联网的一种新学术传播机制。本讲介绍开放获取概况，以及开放获取期刊、预印本、机构知识库、开放数据等资源，帮助大家认识和利用开放获取资源。
学位论文是为获得学位而撰写的论文，是一种典型的特种文献，除少数发表或出版外，多数不公开发行。本讲将系统介绍国内外常用的学位论文资源，及检索获取方法。并从论文撰写规范的角度出发，介绍学位论文分类号的查询和排版注意事项。
1.文献调研要点。2. 文献检索。3. 文献阅读与分析。
专利文献是一种特种文献，但专利信息却在日常生活中无处不在。本期培训将介绍专利的基本知识，并通过PatSnap智慧芽专利数据库，介绍专利检索的基本方法和技巧。
电脑里文献太多，想用的时候却经常找不到印象中那篇？写论文时候，参考文献的编辑让人头疼不已，一不留神错误百出；文章被拒，换刊投稿，参考文献格式又要全部修改。如果您也遇到这样的问题，不妨使用EndNote来有效管理和应用文献。本讲将介绍文献管理软件EndNote，讲解如何利用EndNote管理参考文献、辅助阅读与写作。
本讲介绍科研诚信与道德的概念及重要性，通过案例分析学习规范引用等相关知识，并了解常见的学术不端行为。
图书馆电子资源种类多样、学术性强，掌握各类型数据库的使用，检索文献将事半功倍。
1.中文电子资源简介。2. 中文数据库的利用。3. 中文电子图书查找
介绍理工科开题前的文献调研要点、文献检索方法、利用数据库进行文献分析等。涉及SCI、Scopus、EI、CNKI、SUSTech KC（南科知识苑）等数据库。
Scopus是全球最大的同行评议科研文摘和引文数据库，本讲介绍通过Scopus数据库检索领域内发文情况，并对作者和机构发文情况进行调研；通过SciVal数据分析功能捕捉领域发展、识别研究前沿，助力科学研究。
介绍图书馆购买的人文艺术类纸本馆藏、视听资料，以及人文社科艺术类的中英文数据库，并介绍图书馆的特藏资源，帮助提高人文艺术素养。
认识Web of Science科研平台及平台中的SCI、ESI等子数据库；WOS平台提供引文信息，发掘课题脉络；利用ESI了解科研热点和前沿；JCR发现期刊影响因子和分区。
本期培训介绍如何利用图书馆购买的英语学习数据库和电子辞典、纸本馆藏，以及语法检查工具和网络学习资源，以全面提高英语水平。
本讲将介绍PPT演示文稿的制作与技巧，包括常见的快捷键操作，图片技巧、版式设计及图表修饰等。
LaTeX是一个广泛应用于学术出版界的文档排版系统，本讲介绍LaTeX的基础知识、利用LaTeX排版论文的基本方法和技巧，以及常用命令、模板的使用等。
介绍Excel基本知识；常用快捷方式；函数嵌套；双坐标轴图表、散点图等。
电脑里文献太多，想用的时候却经常找不到印象中那篇？写论文时候，参考文献的编辑让人头疼不已，一不留神错误百出；文章被拒，换刊投稿，参考文献格式又要全部修改。如果您也遇到这样的问题，不妨使用EndNote来有效管理和应用文献。本讲将介绍文献管理软件EndNote，讲解如何利用EndNote管理参考文献、辅助阅读与写作。
本讲以学位论文为例，介绍Word长文档排版中的常见问题及解决方法，并穿插介绍一系列Word使用的小技巧。
Infrastructure performance is important for a nation's economy and its people's quality of life. For efficient and effective infrastructure asset management， structural health monitoring has been researched extensively worldwide in the past 30 years. To interpret the vast volume of monitoring data， many methods have beer proposed， which can be classified into two categories: physics-based and data-driven. 
人类历史上曾经有那么多思想家提出理想社会的范本，孔子讲大同社会，孟子讲老吾老以及人之老，佛陀讲众生平等，耶稣讲天堂如何如何。但是，却没有一个古代社会能够让绝大多数普通人吃饱肚子。人类是到了化肥和育种技术发明后，才有能力解决大部分人的温饱问题的。现代社会与古典社会的根本区别，在于现代社会孕育了一种“知识炼金术”的力量。这股力量能够帮助人们超脱以暴力互相伤害的困境，创造维护文明与繁荣的正增长社会条件。但是，这股力量本身并不是自然而然发生的，也不会在前进的历程上一帆风顺。如果技术力量不加控制，将会对人类社会产生重大的不可逆转的影响。一些逆转已经发生，另一些逆转正在路上。本讲座将带领大家回顾科技史上的重大时刻、技术与启蒙之间的密切关系，并审视现代社会在当下如何受到技术和政治力量合流的多重挑战。
郑智平，化学系主任，讲席教授。北京大学学士、硕士，加州大学洛杉矶分校博士，哈佛大学博士后。历任亚利桑那大学化学与生物化学系助理教授、副教授、教授及科研与人事副系主任。曾任厦门大学“闽江学者”讲座教授暨固体表面物理化学国家重点实验室"111引智计划”教授(2006-2012)，长期致力于过渡金属以及稀土元素功能配合物的设计与合成、表征、性质研究以及材料应用，是稀土配位化学及材料领域的国际知名学者与专家。2016年当选为英国皇家化学会会士。
We will illustrate the full properties of TMK-based auxin signaling in plant development.
Our findings reveal a previously unknown molecular mechanism by which a central signalling hub is shared but differentially modulated by diverse signalling pathways using distinct phosphorylation codes that can be specified by upstream protein kinases.
针对企业在上市过程中因专利相关问题导致上市受阻的现象，从专利问题入手进行解读，并结合高质量专利的标准，分析探究原因并提出解决方法。例如专利对IPO的重要性，专利相关问题对IPO企业的影响，如何解决IPO企业的专利问题，高价值专利的定义，高价值专利培育，及高校专利转化有关政策的解读。
讲座围绕新时期开展国际传播所涉及的问题，特别是国际交流与传播中的取态与话语进行探讨。关于新时期对外传播的价值意义，强调近年来我国的外部环境和国际舆论环境明显恶化，要加以改善， 需要做的工作很多，但改善国际社会对我们的认知是很重要的，所以要着力讲好中国故事。讲好中国故事不能仅仅靠官方或媒体，整个社会都有责任参与其中。企事业机构各有自己的国际交流渠道、平台和机会，公民个人也都有可能获得交流和传播的机会，形成合力，效果会更好。城市的国际形象传播是国家形象传播的组成部分。深圳是改革开放的窗口，深圳的经济发展和社会发展的案例，对于说明中国有特殊的意义。向世界推介深圳，就是要突出深圳改革开放创新的一面，突出“宜居、宜业、宜游”的一面，增加城市的吸引力和影响力。在对外传播中取什么样的态度很重要，取态决定语态。正确的取态和话语会赢得正面效果，反之会事与愿违。深圳为适应新形势，决定成立国际传播联合会，联合会需要企事业单位包括大学共同参与工作。
视频的表征和理解是计算机视觉的一个基本问题，在监控、人机交互、视频检索、网路媒体等领域有重要的应用。与图像相比，视频包含有丰富的运动信息，数据维度也更高，非受控条件下的复杂视频的分析和理解一直是一个极具挑战的问题。近年来，深度学习方法在复杂视频的识别中取得巨大进展，但仍面临众多挑战。
中国有超过1亿的脑功能障碍疾病患者，包括精神疾病(抑郁、双相障碍、精神分裂)、脑卒中、阿尔茨海默症、孤独症谱系障碍等。然而，脑功能障碍疾病的筛查、诊断、疗效评估、疗效预测、个性化治疗方案制定等长期以来缺乏实时动态定量成像手段做支撑。光学脑功能成像具有时空分辨率高、抗运动干扰、抗电磁干扰等独特优势，已发展成为脑功能障碍疾病诊疗不可或缺的新兴技术。
电子系将于5月28日（星期五）下午举办本科专业宣讲会，诚邀各位出席！
In this talk， I introduce a new semi-parametric modeling method for heterogeneous treatment effect estimation and individualized treatment selection using a covariate-specific treatment effect (CSTE) curve with high-dimensional covariates. The proposed method is quite flexible to depict both local and global associations between the treatment and baseline covariates， and thus is robust against model mis-specification in the presence of high-dimensional covariates. 
郭雨蓉现任南方科技大学党委书记。曾任深圳市委教育工委书记，市教育局局长、党组书记；深圳市环境保护局局长、党组书记；深圳市龙岗区人民政府副区长、党组成员。中共深圳市第五届、第六届市委委员。
Wired， optical and pipeline networks support a plethora of critical systems and services in our society today. A common element in these diverse networks is an underlying model that characterizes their key properties and this is the acoustic and electromagnetic guided wave channel. Fault detection can then be formulated as a one-dimensional inverse scattering problem based on the wave equation.
A host of novel quantum transport effeets have been realized in mangetic toploqgica insulators (Tls) with different edge stale configurations. One outstanding exanple is the quantum anomalous Hall effget (QAHE) with one-dimensional chiral edge state in zero magnetic field. 
Increasing accessibility to high-resolution mass spectrometry-based metabolomics have enabled expanding explorations into the chemical diversity of crop species. In the last ten years， the combination of advanced metabolomics technology and vastly diverse crop germplasms have facilitated genetic dissection of crop metabolic traits to unprecedented， sometimes single-gene， resolution.
Pyrethrum (Tanacetum cinerarifolium) is a daisy-like plant from Asteracease family that well-known for synthesis of natural pesticide named pyrethrins in its flower. Although the dried plant and extract have been used for more than one thousand years， the pathway of their biosynthesis in Planta was not quite clear. There are six types of pyrethrins， esters constituted by one of two acid moieties (chrysanthemic acid - type I and pyrethric acid - type I) combines with one of three alcohol moieties (jasmolone pyrethrolone and cinerolone， corresponding to jasmolin， pyrethrin and cinerin respectively). 
讲座将从“通过生涯潜能测试，找到生涯发展优势” “培养积极思维模式，主动促进生涯发展” “学习自我时间管理，刻意练习持续学习”三个方面探索生涯发展。 
太赫兹波段是介于光波和微波之间的，技术上还未开发成熟的电磁波段。传统的太赫兹时域波谱分析系统(THz-TDS)，不具备完全的偏振测试能力，而且太赫兹波段的偏振器件也不成熟。围绕太赫兹中的偏振测量这一问题，讲述我们在太赫兹波段偏振波片和全偏振式波谱分析系统的研究工作。 
本报告将对《科学》杂志列为125个难题中的七个中做出了独特的探索。包括(1)量子不确定性和非局部性背后是否有更深刻的原理? (2)是否存在衍射极限? (3)动物为什么要睡眠? (4)意识的生物学基础是什么? (5)基因组中端粒和丝粒的作用是什么? (6)一些恐龙为何如此庞大? (7)中医经络系统有科学依据吗? 
工业革命以来，大气二氧化碳浓度和全球平均温度持续升高，碳排放究竟如何影响地球生物多样性演变成为普通民众、政界和科学界关注的焦点。地质历史时期发生过多次由碳排放导致的极端高温事件，深刻影响了地球生物多样性演变，是当今全球变化的重要地质对照。
我们针对不完全市场条件下资金拮据的公司开发了一种动态的资本结构，流动性和风险管理理论，并制定了支付政策，除了昂贵的外部股权融资外，我们强调的主要摩擦是有限的财务范围，我们表明，持续的外部融资边际来源是债务。当公司接近或超过其内生债务能力时，它仅依靠昂贵的外部股权融资或昂贵的违约。 
1.创新的概念和定义2.创新的意义和必要性3介绍我国科技创新体系4·我国的科技创新历程5.创新型国家建设6.用科技创新支撑中国的现代化建设。
动力降尺度作为衔接全球和区域气候、污染模式的有效方法，存在一定的不确定性。报告首先以初始场、边界场和云参数化方案选择为例，阐释动力降尺度过程中降水及臭氧模拟的不确定性。进而，基于高分辨率全球气候模式(25km大气、10km海洋)和传统CMIP5模式，探讨高精度全球模式对海洋热浪模拟能力的改进。最后，在极端天气事件(如高温热浪、静稳)频发的背景下，揭示气候变化下复合极端天气及不同污染源排放情景对臭氧和PM2.5污染可能的非线性影响。 
姚静，数学教师，讲授《线性代数)、《概率论与数理统计》等课程;2020年南方科技大学“杰出教学奖"获得者;获第四届全国高校数学微课程教学设计竞赛华南赛区一等奖、第一届学校青年教师教学竞赛理论课组一等奖;主持省级教改课题一项、校级教改课题两项;参与线性代数省级教学团队;长期以来关注智慧课堂教学，开展信息化教学探索。 
韩兢，共和国开国中将韩练成之子，北京太昊福禧文化传播有限公司总经理，珠海横琴韩兢文化创意工作室总经理。曾任宁夏回族自治区图书馆副馆长、中共珠海市委台湾工作办公室调研员。常年参与中国战略与管理研究会、中国企业投资协会、中国市长协会、周恩来精神研究会、中共党史人物研究会井冈红军人物分会等社团的活动。 
Machine learning has become increasingly popular nowadays. It has been applied in a variety of fields， such as artificial intelligence， translation， system management， robotics， logistics， as well as education. When machines can be responsible for many more jobs traditionally operated by human-beings， many interesting questions pop up. How do machines learn? How do people learn? 机器学习是目前最令人瞩目的新技术之一。被应用于各种领域和场景，例如人工智能，翻译，系统管理，机器人，物流，以及教育。当机器的学习能力越来越惊人，逐渐可以取代越来越多的人类工作，我们开始思考一些有意思的问题：比如机器到底是如何学习的？而人类是如何学习的？在21世纪的今天，我们需要什么样的学习方式来获得改造世界的重要能力，如创造力，合作力，批判性思考能力，以及交流能力？这次沙龙将从学习科学和教育技术的角度带领大家去探讨这些关于机器和人类学习的有趣问题。
医疗科技创新推动了医疗服务的发展和全民健康的改善。然而，过高和快速增长的医疗费用给政府和医保支付机构造成了巨大的压力。医疗技术的投入产出比成为一个越来越受关注的话题。卫生技术评估越来越广泛的被使用，来评估新药，新设备，新技术，新服务模式对于公共健康的效用和价值。全球范围内，政府和支付方也越来越多的利用卫生技术评估来指导政策的制定和服务定价。我们将探讨医疗技术评估的方法，当前在各国的应用案例，以及政策和经济方面的因素如何影响了医疗技术的使用。 
The first part of the talk will focus on using the Web to engage volunteers to participate in large-scale online randomized experiments. The speaker will present a case from collaborations with major companies in the sharing economy， namely Airbnb and Couchsurfing. It is demonstrated that reputation systems can serve as mechanisms to reduce obstacles to the growth and o the healthy function of these businesses， such as social biases and suboptimal market matchings.
目前的地震实难倾期后果已超出国家承受能力，巨灾规模及演化超出了应急处置能力，急需从加强国土规划、合理产业布局、提升设防标准、强化应急准备等多方面综合施策加强地震巨灾风险治理。
大鹏半岛是深圳海洋生物多样性最为丰富的地区，有数十种珊瑚和一百多种鱼类，但这些存在于海平面之下的景象一直缺乏记录，这次演讲者是一名水肺潜水员，长期以来在深圳大鹏半岛从事海底影像拍摄，在水下拍摄时间超过了一千小时，积累了大量一手资料，这些影像资料构建了一个深圳海底的生物多媒体库，为我们打开了一个一直缺乏认知的水下世界，也向我们提出了身边的海洋与城市化之间如何共处的问题。
量子精密测量技术具有获取信息更精确和信息丰裕度更高等显著特点，已成为前沿技术创新的重点和热点领域之一。报告重点介绍原子陀螺仪和原子磁力仪的工作原理、国内研究进展、关键技术与研制难点，并对其在军事和民用领域的工程应用进行展望。
齐白石是继吴昌硕之后，近现代文人绘画的倡导者和开拓者。他一生以平民视角作画，“笔如农器忙”，在诗书画印诸多方面都取得了巨大成就。而且他虽“布衣一生”，但他艺术创造确是骇人听闻的，乃至于直到今天他的作品也是最受海内外艺术市场所青睐的。那么，齐白石艺术创造的价值在哪里？他作品的魅力又在什么地方？本周五，请听王登科老师为大家揭秘与解读。
储能电池的高倍率充放电性能是电动汽车广泛推广的拦路虎之一。汽车在启动和爬坡时电动机需要较大电流(大倍率放电) ，汽车运行中充电时间要求尽量短(大倍率充电) 。而当前锂离子电池的现状是充电耗时久，导致充电难，以及高倍率放电导致电池寿命快速衰减，甚至有可能发生安全问题。
The series will be delivered by Helen Spencer-Oatey，an Emeritus Professor of Intercultural Communication and Applied Linguistics at the University of Warwick， where she was the head of the department of Applied Linguistics.
作为生物医学工程系五周年重点科研文化活动，“生物医学工程系五周年成果展”将于2021年5月22日（周六）09:00-15:00在南科大中心201多功能厅举行。届时，生物医学工程系全体课题组将会携各自科研成果亮相成果展，并将有丰富有趣的科研小实验供参观师生到场体验。本次成果展将采用“线上线下结合”的展示方式，争取扩大人员参与范围。现场还准备了精美茶歇，欢迎各位老师、同学前来观展。
2021年金融系本科专业宣讲会，诚邀您出席！
语言从自然属性上来说是一套符号体系，从社会属性上来看，是人们的交际工具，从心理属性上来说，是我们的思维工具。本次讲座主要介绍语言的结构，语言的发展，语言康复，语言与思维，语言与认知，语言与大脑，语言与社会，语言与国家的关系。同时介绍现代语言学的一些最新研究成果，以及语言科技的最新成就。例如语料库语言学，语言学与大数据，语言信息处理，语言学习，语言工程，语言资源等等。
超表面(Metasurface)作为光场调控新颖平台，在超薄光学镜头、矢量全息、激光打印等领域应用广泛。将超表面单元结构对光波的矢量响应特性与光栅序构的衍射特性相结合，有助于对光波前的振幅、相位、偏振态、频率、波矢等多个自由度的灵活高效调控，为全息加密与防伪技术、全Stocks抗干扰偏振成像技术、3D结构光传感等应用带来了契机。
Recent studies have provided strong evidence that various forms of synaptic plasticity， particularly the long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression (LTD)， are critical components of neurobiological processes underpinning the memory persistence and forgetting. Here， we demonstrate that LTD is mediated by facilitated endocytosis of postsynaptic α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid receptors (AMPARs). Through molecular mechanistic study， we have successfully developed a peptide inhibitor that can specifically inhibits the endocytosis of AMPARs， and thereby prevents the expression of LTD， without affecting either basal synaptic transmission or LTP. Systemic application of this peptide prolongs memory retention in normal animals， and reduces memory loss in Alzheimer's transgenic mice. These results strongly suggest that memory decay is mediated by an active process involving AMPAR endocytosis， and inhibiting this process can prolong memory under both physiological and pathological conditions.
集成电路产业是国民经济的战略性、基础性、先导性产业，也是当中美大国博弈的焦点。加快推进集成电路产业发展关乎数字经济的未来，关乎我国经济高质量发展的前景，更是我国提升综合国力必须攻克的硬堡垒。 
芯片是当代信息技术产业发展的核心。我国是全球最大的半导体市场，发展芯片产业具有战略意义，应深入洞悉当今的芯片产业格局与技术前沿。大数据时代海量信息的传输和处理对芯片的算力提出了愈加苛刻的要求。同时，长期以来指引芯片单位成本算力提升的摩尔定律如今正面临严峻的技术挑战，芯片技术的发展已然步入后摩尔时代。
程鑫，南方科技大学材料科学与工程系教授。中国科学技术大学学士（1997），美国斯坦福大学硕士（1999），美国密西根大学博士（2005）。曾任教于德克萨斯农工大学，2013年回国工作，加入南方科技大学。曾获美国国家科学基金会职业奖（2011）和美国国防部高等研究计划署青年教授奖（2011），获深圳市政府特殊津贴（2014），入选深圳市鹏城学者（2018）。一直从事半导体材料、器件和微纳加工方向的教学与科研工作。研究方向包括半导体图形化技术、纳米制造、微流控芯片、微机电传感器等。发表论文90余篇，获批中国和美国专利20余项。曾主持国家自然科学基金委重大科研仪器研制项目、广东省重点领域研发专项等政府科研项目10余项，与企业合作研发项目10余项，多个项目以技术成果转移方式孵化创新企业。
中国共产党深圳市第七次代表大会，是在迎来中国共产党成立100周年的重要时刻，在“两个一百年”奋斗目标历史交汇的关键节点，召开的一次十分重要的大会。大会的主题是：坚持以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，牢记嘱托、勇担使命，在更高起点上推进改革开放，把深圳经济特区办得更好、办得水平更高，奋力建设好中国特色社会主义先行示范区，创建社会主义现代化强国的城市范例，率先实现社会主义现代化，在新时代走在前列、新征程勇当尖兵。
心理文化月的活动正在如火如荼的进行中，心理成长中心即将开展一次论坛，其中会邀请到几位老师和校友来校与大家分享关于逆境的一些故事。
Epigenetic regulation is a conserved mechanism for gene expression in both animals and plants. In plants， epigenetic modifications， such as DNA and histone methylation， are enriched in environment responsive genes including the immune genes. These modifications render a very dynamic change of trend at defense responsive genes. 
Osmoregulation is important for plant growth， development and response to environmental changes. SNF1-related protein kinase 2s (SnRK2s) are quickly activated by osmotic stress and are central components in osmotic stress and abscisic acid (ABA) signaling pathways.
内容涉及颅内动脉粥样硬化性疾病的流行病学、诊断、药物治疗、介入治疗和外科治疗进展，以及未来的发展方向等。 
This talk will discuss the recent research development on micro- nano sensors， including 1) Novel materials are designed and synthesized with simple methods. Hierarchical and microporous structures are obtained with pn junction， nn junction， and Schottky contact. 2) The sensors are applied in gas sensors， humidity sensors， and thermistor devices. Flexible devices are fabricated for moitoring human breathing. Hydrogen sensor will be ntroduced in particular and room temperature working sensors can be realized. 
Nowadays， a wide variety of real-world applications appear as convex optimization problems， esp. large-scale complicated convex programming， which motivate developments of advanced optimization and computing algorithms attaining optimum efficiently in a global sense. 
近几年，随着人工智能、自动驾驶、智能机器人等领域的快速发展及其对红外信息不断增长的需求，对红外光电探测器技术提出了更高的要求，研制高性能、智能化的新型红外光电探测器成为新技术的战略制高点。我们在高性能红外光电探测器研究中取得了阶段性成果，建立了新型局域场操控的红外光电探测器技术，器件核心指标比探测率、探测波段、工作温度、响应速度等均达到了国际先进水平。结合当前国际形势以及未来发展方向的判断，红外探测领域亟需在智能化、轻量化技术方向进行重点突破，通过高度模仿人类的视觉系统，结合类脑神经网络技术，引领红外光电探测器技术从"高性能"向“人工智能"跨越发展。 
人机协作能力是工业机器人的发展趋势，但协作机器人是机器人发展的终极形态吗?本报告将从技术和市场的维度，探讨协作机器人的发展趋势，介绍协作机器人+人工智能的技术发展情况和由此带来的一些激动人心的应用可能。
应对包括全球气候变暖在内的全球生态危机是全人类共同面临的最重要的挑战之一；新冠疫情及其带来的国际关系变局更是增加了全球环保合作的不确定性。面对新的国际局限，我们需要认真探讨和分析导致全球环境危机的政治、经济、科技与文化原因，加强文明之间的交流与互鉴，促进全球人类共同价值的形成与传播，维护气候正义，为全球气候治理与全球环保合作提供必要的伦理资源与文化基础。本讲座将从不同角度探讨全球生态危机的深层根源，剖析和探讨实现全球环境治理目标所需的伦理原则（尤其是气候正义）的具体内涵及其实践路径。
中亚是古丝绸之路的必经之地，数千年来与中国共同推动丝绸之路的繁荣发展。中国与中亚国家建交近30年来，在政治、经贸、安全、人文各领域合作不断深化。2013年，习近平主席提出“一带一路”倡议，得到中亚国家的热烈响应和积极参与。然而，在如今纷繁复杂的国际形势下，中国与中亚各国如何继续深化在各个领域的合作？未来如何在互信、互利、平等的基础上，谋求共同发展，促进文明的多样性？这是继续推动和深化“一带一路”倡议的关键议题，也是我国未来在国际舞台上发挥作用的必由之路。
介绍三大科研身份证：Publons (ReseacherID)、ORCID、Scopus Author ID。区分不同ID，了解数据交互；高效导入科研成果，展示学者风采。
Knowledge and perception of Asia in both European and Islamic cultures experienced a dramatic shifting point in the course of the 13th century. Exploring the work and biographies of two outstanding medieval travelers， the Venetian Marco Polo (12.54-1324) and the Moroecan Ibin Battuta (1304-1377) a Muslim jurist and scholar who ventured across India， Central Aeia and Indonesia， in this talk we will discuss the role that literature， language and identitv played in the representation of cultural diversity within a global Mididle Ages. 
开发新型高能量密度以及低成本的锂离子电池，是有效应对能源危机和环境挑战的可行路径之一。稳定且可逆的阴离子氧化还原反应可以有效提高电极材料的能量密度。
压力是每个人每天面临的挑战，也是每个人个人成长的积淀。此次讲座将介绍压力的积极作用——压弹效应，并讲述古往今来名人化解压力的有题故事。同时也会谈论积极心理学的相关理念。
2021年5月11日是世界防治肥胖日。南科大健康校园科普第二期邀请南方科技大学医院（第三附属医院）内分泌和营养科团队开展健康体重指导的讲座和义诊活动。
硅基OLED微型显示器由硅基驱动芯片和OLED发光器件组成， 触合了半导体和显示技术，具有自发光、广视角、低功耗、高对比度、高反应速度等忧点，是近眼显示系统的核心部件，产品应用于工业国防、教育、医疗、娱乐等领域，随着5G、虚椒现实、增强现实以及自动驾驶等新技术的应用，硅基OLED微型显示器将迎来爆发式增长，据第三方机构调研，预计2023年硅基OLED市场规模逾900亿美元。
浅析Nand Flash物理结构及组织架构、甄别Nand Flash颗粒品质的方法、从技术与市场角度展望闪存未来发展趋势。
Haptic sensors， which measure information from object interactions by converting mechanical stimuli into electrical signals， have become indispensable components in the consumer electronics industry， as well as key components for machine haptics， and even electronic skin. Different from typical haptic sensing technologies， the frictional electric mechanism provides new ideas for implementing novel haptic sensor devices. In this presentation， active haptic sensor devices realized based on single electrode nanogenerators and multiparametric haptic sensor devices realized b using composite sensing will be introduced: at the same time. robotic haptic intelligence applications realized by combining these sensor devices with robotic arms and artificial intelligence algorithms will be demonstrated. 
本报告围绕分数域信号处理及其应用，概述了分数域信号处理的研究背景及其最新研究进展;介绍了以分数域采样与重建、分数域卷积与滤波和分数域检测与估计等理论方法形成的分数域信号处理体系及其在雷达、电磁频谱监测、通信、光学和医学等方面的应用;指出了分数域信号处理在解决远距离微弱目标探测、空间高分辨率辐射源定位、高动态高灵敏测控导航、低慢小目标探测与识别等当前国家重大需求问题上起到的关键作用;讨论了分数域信号处理未来的发展方向和应用潜力。
世界观是科幻审美的重要组成元素。如何让笔下的世界运转合理，且还能推陈出新，甚至产生颠覆性的创意，一直以来都是创作者面临的难题。本次交流将探讨以“科学原理”为线索创造新世界的思路，分享创作中的一些感悟，以及一个全新的科幻世界观案例。
The science of measurement is called metrology， which is fundamentally important in addition to providing support for standards and units. Measurement precision determines the level of our understanding and erects limits for established laws and theories governing the nature. Statistical inference of a parameter from measurements based on an ensemble of independent particles is lower bounded by the classical precision limit or the standard quantum limit (SQL). A number of quantum enhanced measurement paradigms will be introduced and illustrated with experiments carried out on atomic Bose-Einstein ondensate (BEC)， Atomic entanelement is deterministically generated and leads to reduced quantum noise n linear interferometry， time reversed quantum interaction is engineered for nonlinear interferometry to amplify signal， both demonstrating precisions beyond sQL.
学习书法的取法来源除来自贴学墨迹以外，碑刻书法也是非常重要的取法对象，有其自身鲜明的特点和形成过程。通过讲解，初步了解其特点的形成与变化因素，在实践学习时抓住由镌刻到书写转化过程中的核心要素，最终走向笔墨书写状态。
本文构建一种非参数方法提取我国上证50ETF期权中隐含的前向分布信息，以测算我国股票市场的广义风险。实证结果发现：隐含广义风险指标对未来风险调整收益具有显若预测能力，在其它预测因子基础上加入该指标可以显著改进风险调整收益的样本外预测精度；隐含广义风险指标还能反映收益率的高阶矩和尾部信息，进而能预测未来收敲率发生下跳风险的概率，进一步基于上证A股市场的个股数据研究发现，广义风险溢酬是重要的定价因子，且风险价格为负，以上结论在控制一系列其它风险因子及不同样本区间和不同预测窗口下是稳健的，说明基于前向信息的广义风险指标含有其它风险因子所不具备的额外信息。
心理成长中心携手娄兰剧社开启的解压心理戏剧课程，经过近一个月与同学们的学习与互动，已经到了尾声。一个多月的投入，即将迎来课程的汇报演出。5月15日19：00，解压心理戏剧在南科大教工之家，为老师，同学们带来一场分享公开课。
中国芯片公司利用15年时间达到手机芯片全球占有率20%+，为什么目前中国设计的MCU全球占有率只有5%?为什么中国有20+家蓝牙芯片设计公司，而没有一家专注ZigBee的芯片设计公司?演讲会基于芯片领军人才及从业人员现状分析芯片设计公司遇到的机遇及挑战。 
锁模激光是获得超短光脉冲的一种主流方法，也是研究非线性科学的理想平台。近年来兴起的时空锁模(spatiotemporal mode-locking)同时锁定多横模与纵模，其输出的脉冲能量比传统的多纵模锁模更高，并且非线性过程更丰富、维度更高。报告将评述多模光纤激光器中的时空锁模研究进展，着重介绍我们对时空锁模激光器的研究结果。 
Relic restoration is important for understanding the history. Pre-sent relic restoration， which is conducted by human researchers， is time consuming. More importantly， when human is matching different relic pieces， the fraction， transportation and human carelessness may cause the relic further damage. This project aims at developing an artificial way of restoring broken culture relics， so that the relics can be restored quickly and accurately and free of further damage.
This talk introduces the limitation of conventional converters and presents two hybrid DC-DC converters:the 3-level and cross-connected Cfly converters.The working principles，the advantages and drawback，and design considerations are discussed.Comparison among topologies is made.
中国公募基金行业经过了23年的发展，当前的发展态势如何，有怎样的前景？行业的发展变化蕴含了怎样的机会？基金公司的市场与投研体系架构是怎样的，未来会怎样演变？在基金公司如何做宏观与策略研究？
孟庆虎，加拿大工程院院士，Fellow of IEEE，广东省高尖端人才，深圳市杰出人才。1992 年获加拿大维多利亚大学博士学位。1994-2004 年在加拿大阿尔伯塔大学任教至终身正教授。2001 年起任香港中文大学教授，2016年起任香港中文大学电子工程学系主任。2020年起任南方科技大学电子与电气工程系讲席教授、系主任。研究领域涉及机器人感知与智能，智慧医疗，及稠密人群动态环境中的人机交互与操作等。多个研究课题在国际上独创建树，国际领先。担任多个国际学术期刊主编和编委，以及国际会议大会主席，包括即将于今年六月初在西安举办的国际机器人与自动化领域旗舰会议 IEEE ICRA 2021 大会主席。
In this talk，I will give a brief introduction to hyperbolic geometry at first.Then，the benefit to work with hyperbolic geometry and related new physics will be shown in detail.
国内外人工智能与计算大咖分享最前沿科学创新成果，以及流体力学、人工智能、生物医学等最新研究成果首次分享！
Genomes encompass all the information necessary to specify the development and function of an organism.In addition to genes，genomes also contain a myriad of functional elements that control various steps in gene expression.
Molecular functions in the nucleus are always coupled.For example，co-transcriptional splicing process ensures nascent RNAs are processed and exported into the cytoplasm in an accurate and timely manner.
“南海一号”是一艘南宋时期的沉船遗址，发现于二十世纪八十年代，是中国发现的第一艘沉船，也是国际范围内一处价值极重要的水下文化遗产。
铝动力系统（ALPS）可能作为新一代水下动力源，其将可能为水下航行器、节点或平台等提供电源。报告主要汇报铝动力系统ALPS相关的研究进展以及项目团队所做部分研究工作与工程化结果。
本课件将重点介绍FPGA市场、技术与应用等方面情况，分析国内外FPGA行业发展的差距，然后介绍国内领军企业紫光同创的公司情况及产品布局，最后就大学生如何更好地投身FPGA产业，进行了思路探讨，并提出了就业建议。
从感知计算的概念到内涵，及其应用进行阐述，接着介绍了从集成电路角度如何进行支撑，最后介绍了微纳研究院在这个领域一些实践。
本次报告将针对物流领域的不同场景和典型需求，结合蓝胖子机器智能在物流领域的应用案列及产品，展开介绍涉及到的关键机器人技术，分享和探讨机器人技术在行业落地应用所面临的挑战及可能的发展方向。
人们日益增长的对自由移动的向往和需求，导致了近些年无数能量收集和传输技术的开发，以期望达到真正切断有线世界的最后一根电线。在本报告中，我们将介绍中远程无限能量传输的机会、技术、挑战与未来可能的发展方向。
中国书法史上书法家群星璀璨，书法风格多彩多样，书法碑帖浩如烟海，我们该如何选择和学习？书法笔法名目繁多，尚有字法、墨法、章法诸多讲究，怎么办？在毛笔已经退出实用舞台、键盘文化肆行的时代，我们为什么要学书法？让我们一起去探讨这些基本而又重要的问题，了解书法的历史和承载的内涵，弘扬中国优秀传统文化。
本报告将系统介绍基于全寿命周期的钢管混凝土结构分析理论主要内容，及其在典型基础设施建设中的应用。
Unlike small molecules，that usually take most thermodynamically stable structures，various thermodynamically metastable structures for nanocrystals(NCs)，including NCs with high energy surfaces，multiply twinned NCs and NCs with metastable phases，may also exist.
大学是成就人生梦想的地方，如何科学合理的用脑，不仅关系到自己的梦想，也与我们的健康密切相关。保护脑，做快乐的自己！
“碳达峰、碳中和”是我国应对气候变化、降低社会经济发展对碳排放的依赖、推进产业转型升级的重大战略。在推进“碳达峰、碳中和”的过程中，能源转型是核心。建设清洁低碳、安全高效的能源互联网是能源转型的重中之重。
马望星，原国防科技大学政治部副主任，少将，哲学博士，教授。先后任学院副院长，常务副院长，院党委书记兼政治委员，学校政治部分管教员队伍建设和思政课教学的领导。长期坚持写作，先后在求实杂志、人民日报、光明日报、解放军报发展各类文章600余篇。先后12次荣获新闻特和一等奖，连续6年荣立三等功，获军队教学成果一等奖。长年从事钱学森创新教育思想和钱学森精神研究，出版三部专著。
本次报告首先将由黄学良先生介绍国微的发展与EDA布局。随后白耿博士将对国产全流程EDA平台上的主要EDA工具做一个比较系统的介绍，并对人工智能算法在EDA工具中的不同应用场景进行简单的概括。
本报告调查当前南方科技大学（下文简称：南科大）三所附属医院论文在两大索引数据库（Scopus、SCI/SSCI）是否归属到南科大以及论文机构署名现状，并从大学排名角度对三所附属医院论文合并至南科大是否有利进行分析，旨在为学校就附属医院署名规范和机构 ID管理提供决策支持。如对本报告有任何问题或建议，欢迎与图书馆联系。
“遗传补偿效应”（Genetic Compensation）有利于生物体应对基因变异、保证个体发育以及物种在进化过程中的遗传稳定性（Genetic robustness）。同源基因广泛存在于各种生物体的基因组中，同源基因之间的功能补偿效应是“遗传补偿效应”的一种重要方式，是生命领域的普遍现象。
Quantum light source is an essential key optoelectronic-device for quantum chips and quantum information，while its low efficiency and difficulties in on-demand control of the quantum states greatly restrict its practical applications.
Key Points:1.Lithostatic·pressure imbalances from topography or Moho gradients are unstable and this is the case in SongPanGanzi·Qaidam area.2.Vertical forces alone would destabilize such a Moho offset in less than 5 Ma.3.With added tectonic horizontal convergence destabilization ······
NaCI and CaCI2are the only known stable form of the Na-CI and Ca-CI crystals under ambient conditions and are non-ferromagnetic.We report the two-dimensional Na2CI，Na3CI and CaCI crystals on reduced graphene oxide，where the CaCI crystal possesses unexpected ferromagnetic behavior.
Quon language is a 3D mathematical picture language， which can be regarded as fractional tensor network designed for quantum nformation. I will talk about some insightful examples and recent results.
介绍著作权相关知识，包括计算机软件著作权登记的基本流程、材料准备、注意事项以及版权登记的作用等内容，同时分享其他类型作品的版权登记相关事宜。
平安集团如今取得了就是瞩目的成绩，公司上市以来的业绩表现如何？平安集团一天的收入如何？平安的发展历程是怎么样的？以及目前平安的战略板块。面对日益复杂的国际形势，精算和保险行业何去何从？什么是精算？保险和精算之间是什么样的关系？如何成为一名精算师？这个职业未来的发展如何？本次讲座将围绕这些问题，和同学进进行交流探讨。
本报告旨在从学校、院系、学科三个层面对我校的科研表现进行整体分析，揭示我校整体科研实力与四个学科的发展历程和趋势，探究我校在全球、国内以及年轻大学中的表现以及面临的机遇与挑战，为我校不断完善和发展学科，快速实现“扎根中国大地，建设世界一流研究性大学”的宏伟目标提供客观数据和信息支撑。如对本报告有任何问题或建议，欢迎与图书馆联系。
According to Ginzburg-Landau theory， a phase transition should be first order when cubic terms of order parameters are allowed in its effective GL free energy. 
在报告中，我们首先介绍如何在量子开放系统中建立一般性的线性响应理论，将量子开放系统的非平衡动力学问题转化为原始体态平衡态关联函数的研究。
刘合，中国工程院院士，中国石油勘探开发研究院教授，能源与矿业工程管理专家。
本场讲座将探讨管理者如何在听众关注度有限时下调整自愿披露的信息，基于重叠电话会议来研究此问题。
As a Key enabler for the Internet-of-Things (IoT)，machine-type communications(MTC) has emerged to be an essential part for future communications.In MTC， a number of machines (called users or devices) ubiquitously comunicate to a base station or among themselves with no or minimal human interventions.
前沿的AI-3D感知技术通过识别视野内空间每个点位的三维坐标信息，从而使得计算机得到空间的3D数据并能够复原完整的三维世界，实现各种智能的三维定位。
The sixth-generation(6G) wireless networks are envisioned to provide a global coverage for the intelligent digital society of the near future，ranging from traditional terrestrial to non-terrestrial networks，where raliable communications in high-mobility scenarios at high carrier frequencies would play a vital role.
本期艺术与科学大讲堂内容主要围绕什么是古典音乐，如何欣赏古典音乐，以及被作为电影背景音乐的原因等方面展开讲述。本次我们精选了世界经典古典名曲，列举了《肖申克的救赎》、《教父》等精彩桥段，通过电影情节里的表述来一一剖析、解读它们的意义。
对真正热爱旅行的人而言，远足不仅意味着地理空间的迁移，更是精神世界的拓展与提升。本次讲座以新冠疫情之前(2019年夏天)本人的一次欧洲之行为中心，结合此前数十次来往于欧陆城市之间的经历，与同学一起分享旅行时所拍摄的大量第一手照片资料，介绍自己游历欧洲大学、博物馆、教堂等文化景观所留下的切身感受和思考，尤其是关注日常生活的趣味和精神品质这一或已久被遗忘的问题。
报告从创富、守富、传富、享富四个角度，分析财富管理需求端“个性化”、“多样化”的演进趋势。从主体多元化、治理规范化、产品净值化及供给多元化，阐述财富管理行业供给端的发展变化。从金融科技赋能内部团队和外部客户的角度，分析技术进步如何拓展财富管理行业边界，为行业经营管理提供参考。
本次沙龙活动采取讨论与实践相结合的方式。在讨论中，我们聚焦于下面的问题：书法究竟关乎什么，它是怎样的一种艺术？对书法而言，何谓“美”“丑”，这种判断在今天是否可能？书法在今天的生存空间在哪里？在讨论的同时，我们还将进行现场书法实践活动，为大家提供一个亲身体验的契机。
介绍深圳自经济特区建立以来知识产权波澜壮阔的发展历程，深圳在知识产权的创造、保护、运用、管理各方面从无到有、从有到优，取得的累累硕果；以及近年来深圳高校院所在专利创造、保护、产学研联合创新、专利运营管理等方面的发展情况等。
This seminar covers 1) the clinical challenges of hepatitis E， 2) potential antiviral strategies on the basis on interferon stimulated geners， 3) HEV viral-host interaction.
本次讲座将分为四个大的方向展开：一、制作人的属性，二、制作人工作的重要性，三、制作人应具备的基本素质，四、综合艺术知识储备的必要性。
韶音科技是全球骨传导运动耳机品类建立者和领导品牌，讲座重点介绍韶音科技的创新史及其形成的产品创新方法。
本报告将介绍水凝胶微流控芯片的制备技术，水凝胶与其他导电材料的符合以及性能研究，以及在此基础上开发的全水凝胶的柔性电子器件图无线传感器和超级电容等。
Ground state criticality of many-body systems is a resource for quantum enhanced sensing，namely Heisenberg precision limit，provided that one has access to the whole system.We show that for partial accessibility the sensing capacity of a block in the ground state reduces to sub-Heisenberg limit. 
“一带一路”倡议是一项新的伟大实践，自2013年推出至今，已取得不俗的成绩。本讲以我国西部企业开展与“一带”国家的经贸活动为研究对象，利用时间序列数据进行实证分析。重点阐述“倡议”对经贸活动的主效应作用及“文化摩擦”和“种族渊源”的调节效应作用。
智能医疗场景中存在疾病数据缺失（如健康体检）以及难于快速收集全所有疾病数据的情况，对应的研究问题包括异常检测和持续学习。
简要介绍广州中国科学院先进技术研究所以智能装备为核心，从事应用研究与成果转化的实践。最后介绍将信息技术与生物技术结合，建设深圳合成生物学重大科研基础设施的进展情况。
In this talk，we showcase novel clinical findings from our largescale analyses，such as the shared genetic influences among brain structures，functions，and a wide spectrum of clinical outcomes.We establish genetic maappings from hundreds of anatomical brain regions onto their corresponding functional connectivities，and further noto complex mental disorders，which may transverse our undertanding of the disease emergence and development.
汪宏，南方科技大学工学院党委书记、副院长，材料科学与工程系讲席教授。曾任西安交通大学二级教授、研究生院副院长。现任中国硅酸盐学会理事，亚洲电子陶瓷联盟主席，IEEE超声铁电与频率控制学会Women-In-Engineering主席，IEEE国际铁电委员会委员等。
In this talk，I will report our recent research on quantum simulations of topological phenomena using superconducing quantum circuits.I will show your :i)how to construct topological models using superconducting quantum circuits;ii)how to manipulated and measure topological states in different quantum circuits;iii)the environmental effect on the topological systems is finally analyzed.
两个《历史决议》是什么？正确的党史观是什么？为什么要反对历史虚无主义？刘娜娜教授将从三个方面逐层展开分析，全面深入解读党史上两个著名的《历史决议》，帮助青年树立正确的党史观。
 Specific loss of cell vitality during animal development and adult life is important part of normal animal physiology and defects in such a process cause many human diseases. These forms of cell death are executed by specific biochemical programs within the dying cell， thus termed regulated cell death. 
山寨食品和勾兑酒在景颇社区中有矛盾含义，对中老年人和一二十岁的年轻人各自意味着两个相反的世界，也透露出献鬼村民和基督徒的不同生活方式。一方面，山寨食品价格低廉、质量低劣，却给年轻人品尝、接触、和想象都市生活的愿望和可能性。另一方面，虔诚的基督徒应该心思单纯，而献鬼祭师必须精通说服、沟通、甚至是诱骗（对不好的鬼神，如口舌鬼和琵琶鬼）的艺术。这两种生活伦理导致基督徒和献鬼村民对山寨食品和勾兑酒的不同态度：对基督徒，酒污染人的单纯，让人兴奋，诱发不该有的心思和行为；对献鬼村民，酒能助兴，让人面对鬼神时即兴发挥、游刃有余。
传统中国的“天下”观念，凝聚这一种以王权主义为内核、“朝贡”体制为依托的政治、社会秩序。这种秩序存在这双重的内在张力，即中心与边缘、道理与实力之间的矛盾。近世以来，中外人员、物质和知识的流动愈益频繁，利益、观念和制度的碰撞愈益强烈，“天下”秩序的内在张力愈益加剧。19世纪以后，“朝贡”体制逐步被打破，王权主义遭到质疑，“天下”观念逐渐被“世界”观念所取代。
Quantum network can provide unconditional secure communication，distributed quantum computing and remote sensing.Here，I shall review the experiment progress towards large scales quantum network，including PQC authorized metropolitan QKD network，field test of twin field QKD over long haul fiber，free space MDI QKD and time frequency dissemination.
随着通讯和互联网的快速发展，电信网络诈骗成为一种高发犯罪形式，延伸到社会各个领域，危害巨大。据辖区派出所通报，我校至今已发生多起师生遭遇诈骗的案件，上当受骗师生因此蒙受巨大经济损失。徐强警官从事打击电信网络诈骗犯罪活动工作11年，有着丰富的反诈经验。本次讲座将从理论和实务的角度分析电信网络诈骗案件的主要类型和具体手法，如网络购物退款类诈骗、网络刷单诈骗、办理信用卡、提升信用卡额度类诈骗等，希望帮助广大师生加强防范电信网络诈骗意识，提高识骗能力，谨防上当受骗。
“红色经典音乐”是在中国共产党领导下所进行的革命音乐活动中创作、演出和广为流传的音乐艺术精品。她最为生动、准确地记载了一百年来，从土地革命战争、抗日战争、解放战争，直至新中国成立后的社会主义建设，改革开放和社会主义现代化建设新时期，建设有中国特色社会主义新时代等各个时期的一系列伟大的革命实践活动。
以PatSnap智慧芽专利数据库为例，介绍专利检索和分析的基本方法；PatSnap智慧芽专利数据库的功能；如何利用智慧芽对专利文献进行数据处理并辅助阅读；以及如何利用工作空间，快速实现团队协作和专利监控。
通过分析流行歌曲中的传统民族音乐要素，讲述传统音乐要素在现代音乐创作中的运用，让听者领略优秀传统音乐文化的魅力。讲座宗旨是让更多的人喜爱中国传统音乐，从而传承和传播优秀传统文化。
江桂斌，中国科学院院士，发展中国家科学院院士。现任第13届全国政协人口资源环境专委会副主任，中国分析测试协会理事长，中国科学院大学资环学院院长，国科大杭州高等研究院环境学院院长，环境化学与生态毒理学国家重点实验室主任。
本次报告将主要围绕着物理场驱动控制的微纳米机器人以及微操作系统方面的一些研究工作做简要汇报。
4月22日下午16:20，陈晓非院士将在第一科研楼报告厅为大家带来《现代科技与家国情怀》特色思政课第二期第六讲——《万丈高楼平地起——打好基础，实现梦想》，欢迎全校师生前来聆听。
南科大-昆士兰大学联合神经科学与神经工程研究中心将于2021年4月27日（周二）15：30-17：00，邀请北京脑科学与类脑研究中心王同飞研究员和谭禄彬博士做学术报告。
一提到文艺复兴时期的艺术，哪怕对西方艺术一知半解的人，都能说出达•芬奇、米开朗基罗、拉斐尔、提香等艺术巨匠，以及《蒙娜丽莎》、《最后的晚餐》、《大卫》、《西斯廷圣母》等传世艺术名作。在一般大众心目中，文艺复兴艺术一度几乎成了西方艺术的代名词。但要对文艺复兴时期的艺术有一个较全面和客观的把握，最好不要仅仅局限于那些耳熟能详的传世名作，而应将这一时期的艺术置于其时代的社会和文化情景中，尤其是要考察它们究竟是“为何”以及“如何”产生的。
The AMPK(AMP-activated protein kinase)and TOR(target-of-rapamycin)pathways play opposing roles in sensing the availability of nutrients and energy，which regulate cell growth accordingly.AMPK is switched on by lack of energy or nutrients and inhibits biosyntheis，while TOR is switched on by nutrient availability and promotes anabolism and cell growth.
介绍科技成果转化过程中涉及的常见税务问题，例如知识产权作价入股所获股权涉及税务问题、成果转化递延纳税相关规定、常见税务筹划考虑、以及企业融资中常见的财税关注点等。
摩尔定律的核心价值在于基于CMOS工艺的芯片每年降低40%，由此要求工艺加工的三级管尺度按比例缩减。由于为了维持这样一个三极管尺度的持续缩减原则，使得大量非常规材料和工艺过程不得不才被采用。但这些材料和工艺过程的采用极大的提升了加工的成本，致使无法使用基于新的先进工艺加工的芯片成本查询每年下降40%。出现了所谓的“摩尔定律终结”。
2020年，一场突如其来的新冠病毒爆发带来了人类历史上最大规模的全球性疫情，使人类面临史无前例的巨变。尽管世界上其他地区依然处于病毒肆虐的态势，但中国已经取得了战胜疫情的决定性胜利，进入了后疫情时代经济复苏与产业重构的时期。
这次分享将讨论实验音乐如何体现出一种特殊的、植根于中国“山水”思想（或，气-思想）中的思维方式，该思想认为自然和环境是秘密且有滋养力的。山水思想培养了一种伴随而不是服从或征服的生存姿态；它更需要默契共鸣，而不是客观认知。山水思想使我们能够认识到淡（安静和平淡）和幽（向内扩展）作为音乐品质的宇宙性、美学的和道德的价值。这里的“淡”和“幽”，曾经被作曲家克里斯蒂安·沃尔夫（Christian Wolff）所说的禁欲主义极简主义描述为“贫穷”和“黑暗”。
大家好，应创新创业学院的邀请，秦朔朋友圈、中国商业文明研究中心发起人，原《南风窗》、《第一财经日报》总编辑  秦朔 做客南科大创新创业大讲堂，做题为《从西到C：中国企业创新研究》的报告。
哺乳动物早期胚胎发育经历了细胞命运的多次转变，表观遗传信息在维持细胞命运和控制基因发达中发挥重要作用，解析表观遗传修饰在早期胚胎发育过程中的重塑与调控机制，对促进再生医学以及升值医学的发展有重要意义。
应电子系邵理阳副教授的邀请，深圳英美达医疗技术有限公司研发副总监熊乔洲将于4月23日（星期五）做学术讲座。
纵观人类发展历史，任何时代，创新始终是推动一个国家、一个民族，乃至推动整个人类社会向前发展的最重要的手段；自然界也遵循创新法则，不断变异进化。而科学研究，简言之就是“以已知求未知”，贵在探索与创新。因此，对于大家来说要特别注意培养自己创造性思维的能力。
Fuzhuan brick tea (FBT)， a typ of unique brick-shaped dar tea， is generally producted from old， coarse， rough leaves of Camellia sinensis var. sinensis.
微生物群体感应通讯系统和胞内环二鸟苔酸信号系统是近年来发展迅速的群体微生物学中的重要研究领域。
科技告诉我们一亩田可以种多少棵水稻，施什么肥，该什么时候施肥，以及如何降低成本和提高效益。但是否所有降低成本，提高效益的措施都是可以接受的？不一定。人们的生产行为会影响到他人，影响到后代，影响到跟人类共同生存在一起的植物和动物的利益。这就有一个伦理的视角，需要接受伦理的审察。从伦理的角度看农业，你会看到不一样的东西。
本报告将介绍本课题组在解析脑中“糖密码”方面的一些进展。
In this talk， we shall present some recent results of massive access from optimization perspective. In particular， we shall present optimization formulations and algorithms as well as some phase transition analysis results.
Nitrogen-containing compounds are widely present in natural products， functional materials， top-selling drugs， as well as bioactive molecules. Although significant progresses have made in the functionalization of simple hudrocarbons， direct incorporation of N-atoms into the ismple substrates via C-H and/or C-C bond cleavage remains challenging dur to the inert chemical bonds. In this presentation， the direct nitrogenation of hudrocarbons will be introduced.
A fully interconnected and intelligent living environment has been a grand challange for future smart society and it is critically essential to develop the interactive sensing and actuating systems to bridge the human-machine interfaces. In this talk， Dr Junwen Zhong will introduce various sensors， actuators， and robots that are fabricated based on piezoelectret and piezoelectric efffects.
应量子科学与工程研究院范靖云教授的邀请，中国科学技术大学张强教授将做理学院第058期科学大讲堂报告，详情如下，欢迎全校师生参加！
艺术与童年，是一个经久不息的话题。人们在现有的经验中不断地探求二者的关系，并试图在艺术的图式里找到那些远去风景的蛛丝马迹，在作品与时光的邂逅间建立起某种必然的联系，这也是艺术心理学与社会学的一个多元视野。童年对一个人精神的成长至关重要。罗丹说：“艺术是一门让人学会真诚的学问”。而沿此说来，与其说是艺术家葆有童心，倒不如说是替人类葆全了人性的天真与纯净。本次讲座，王登科老师将从自身艺术发展经历出发，与南科师生分享艺术之于人生的重要意义。
驻校艺术家王登科老师将在本场工作坊中与大家一起分享书法、绘画对他人生成长的影响。并以传统文人画为主要线索，回望与前瞻，现场即兴书写、绘画，展现艺术之于人生启蒙的重要意义。